<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8"/><title>The Project Gutenberg eBook of <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alic</span>’s Adventures in Wonderland, by Lewis Carroll</title>
<link href="6269378934971248692_cover.jpg" rel="icon" type="image/x-cover" id="id-8875896598953579899"/>

<link href="0.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="1.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="pgepub.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta name="generator" content="Ebookmaker 0.12.21 by Project Gutenberg"/>
</head>
<body class="x-ebookmaker x-ebookmaker-3"><div class="chapter" id="pgepubid00012">
<h2><a id="chap09"/>CHAPTER IX.<br/>
The Mock Turtle’s Story</h2>
<p>
“You can’t think how glad I am to see you again, you dear old
thing!” said the Duchess, as <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> tucked <span title='original: her' style='color: purple;'>their</span> arm affectionately into
<span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alic</span>’s, and they walked off together.
</p>
<p>
<span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alic</span> was very glad to find <span title='original: her' style='color: purple;'>them</span> in such a pleasant temper, and thought to
<span title='original: herself' style='color: purple;'>themselves</span> that perhaps it was only the pepper that had made <span title='original: her' style='color: purple;'>them</span> so savage when
they met in the kitchen.
</p>
<p>
“When <i>I’m</i> a Duchess,” <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> said to <span title='original: herself' style='color: purple;'>themselves</span>, (not in a
very hopeful tone though), “I won’t have any pepper in my kitchen
<i>at all</i>. Soup does very well without—Maybe it’s always pepper
that makes people hot-tempered,” <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> went on, very much pleased at having
found out a new kind of rule, “and vinegar that makes them sour—and
camomile that makes them bitter—and—and barley-sugar and such
things that make children sweet-tempered. I only wish people knew <i>that</i>:
then they wouldn’t be so stingy about it, you know—”
</p>
<p>
<span title='original: She' style='color: purple;'>They</span> had quite forgotten the Duchess by this time, and was a little startled
when <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> heard <span title='original: her' style='color: purple;'>their</span> voice close to <span title='original: her' style='color: purple;'>their</span> ear. “You’re thinking about
something, my dear, and that makes you forget to talk. I can’t tell you
just now what the moral of that is, but I shall remember it in a bit.”
</p>
<p>
“Perhaps it hasn’t one,” <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alic</span> ventured to remark.
</p>
<p>
“Tut, tut, child!” said the Duchess. “Everything’s got
a moral, if only you can find it.” And she squeezed <span title='original: herself' style='color: purple;'>themselves</span> up closer to
<span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alic</span>’s side as <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> spoke.
</p>
<p>
<span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alic</span> did not much like keeping so close to <span title='original: her' style='color: purple;'>them</span>: first, because the Duchess was
<i>very</i> ugly; and secondly, because <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> <span title='original: was' style='color: purple;'>were</span> exactly the right height to
rest <span title='original: her' style='color: purple;'>their</span> chin upon <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alic</span>’s shoulder, and it was an uncomfortably sharp
chin. However, <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> did not like to be rude, so <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> bore it as well as <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span>
could.
</p>
<p>
“The game’s going on rather better now,” <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> said, by way of
keeping up the conversation a little.
</p>
<p>
“’Tis so,” said the Duchess: “and the moral of that
is—‘Oh, ’tis love, ’tis love, that makes the world go
round!’”
</p>
<p>
“Somebody said,” <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alic</span> whispered, “that it’s done by
everybody minding their own business!”
</p>
<p>
“Ah, well! It means much the same thing,” said the Duchess, digging
her sharp little chin into <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alic</span>’s shoulder as <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> added, “and the
moral of <i>that</i> is—‘Take care of the sense, and the sounds
will take care of themselves.’”
</p>
<p>
“How fond <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> <span title='original: is' style='color: purple;'>are</span> of finding morals in things!” <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alic</span> thought to
<span title='original: herself' style='color: purple;'>themselves</span>.
</p>
<p>
“I dare say you’re wondering why I don’t put my arm round
your waist,” the Duchess said after a pause: “the reason is, that
I’m doubtful about the temper of your flamingo. Shall I try the
experiment?”
</p>
<p>
“He might bite,” <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alic</span> cautiously replied, not feeling at all
anxious to have the experiment tried.
</p>
<p>
“Very true,” said the Duchess: “flamingoes and mustard both
bite. And the moral of that is—‘Birds of a feather flock
together.’”
</p>
<p>
“Only mustard isn’t a bird,” <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alic</span> remarked.
</p>
<p>
“Right, as usual,” said the Duchess: “what a clear way you
have of putting things!”
</p>
<p>
“It’s a mineral, I <i>think</i>,” said <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alic</span>.
</p>
<p>
“Of course it is,” said the Duchess, who seemed ready to agree to
everything that <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alic</span> said; “there’s a large mustard-mine near
here. And the moral of that is—‘The more there is of mine, the less
there is of yours.’”
</p>
<p>
“Oh, I know!” exclaimed <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alic</span>, who had not attended to this last
remark, “it’s a vegetable. It doesn’t look like one, but it
is.”
</p>
<p>
“I quite agree with you,” said the Duchess; “and the moral of
that is—‘Be what you would seem to be’—or if
you’d like it put more simply—‘Never imagine yourself not to
be otherwise than what it might appear to others that what you were or might
have been was not otherwise than what you had been would have appeared to them
to be otherwise.’”
</p>
<p>
“I think I should understand that better,” <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alic</span> said very
politely, “if I had it written down: but I can’t quite follow it as
you say it.”
</p>
<p>
“That’s nothing to what I could say if I chose,” the Duchess
replied, in a pleased tone.
</p>
<p>
“Pray don’t trouble yourself to say it any longer than that,”
said <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alic</span>.
</p>
<p>
“Oh, don’t talk about trouble!” said the Duchess. “I
make you a present of everything I’ve said as yet.”
</p>
<p>
“A cheap sort of present!” thought <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alic</span>. “I’m glad
they don’t give birthday presents like that!” But <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> did not
venture to say it out loud.
</p>
<p>
“Thinking again?” the Duchess asked, with another dig of <span title='original: her' style='color: purple;'>their</span> sharp
little chin.
</p>
<p>
“I’ve a right to think,” said <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alic</span> sharply, for <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> <span title='original: was' style='color: purple;'>were</span>
beginning to feel a little worried.
</p>
<p>
“Just about as much right,” said the Duchess, “as pigs have
to fly; and the m—”
</p>
<p>
But here, to <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alic</span>’s great surprise, the Duchess’s voice died away,
even in the middle of <span title='original: her' style='color: purple;'>their</span> favourite word ‘moral,’ and the arm that
was linked into <span title='original: hers' style='color: purple;'>her</span> began to tremble. <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alic</span> looked up, and there stood the
Queen in front of them, with her arms folded, frowning like a thunderstorm.
</p>
<p>
“A fine day, your Majesty!” the Duchess began in a low, weak voice.
</p>
<p>
“Now, I give you fair warning,” shouted the Queen, stamping on the
ground as she spoke; “either you or your head must be off, and that in
about half no time! Take your choice!”
</p>
<p>
The Duchess took her choice, and was gone in a moment.
</p>
<p>
“Let’s go on with the game,” the Queen said to <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alic</span>; and
<span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alic</span> was too much frightened to say a word, but slowly followed her back to
the croquet-ground.
</p>
<p>
The other guests had taken advantage of the Queen’s absence, and were
resting in the shade: however, the moment they saw her, they hurried back to
the game, the Queen merely remarking that a moment’s delay would cost
them their lives.
</p>
<p>
All the time they were playing the Queen never left off quarrelling with the
other players, and shouting “Off with his head!” or “Off with
her head!” Those whom she sentenced were taken into custody by the
soldiers, who of course had to leave off being arches to do this, so that by
the end of half an hour or so there were no arches left, and all the players,
except the King, the Queen, and <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alic</span>, were in custody and under sentence of
execution.
</p>
<p>
Then the Queen left off, quite out of breath, and said to <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alic</span>, “Have
you seen the Mock Turtle yet?”
</p>
<p>
“No,” said <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alic</span>. “I don’t even know what a Mock Turtle
is.”
</p>
<p>
“It’s the thing Mock Turtle Soup is made from,” said the
Queen.
</p>
<p>
“I never saw one, or heard of one,” said <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alic</span>.
</p>
<p>
“Come on, then,” said the Queen, “and he shall tell you <span title='original: his' style='color: purple;'>their</span>
history,”
</p>
<p>
As they walked off together, <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alic</span> heard the King say in a low voice, to the
company generally, “You are all pardoned.” “Come,
<i>that’s</i> a good thing!” <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> said to <span title='original: herself' style='color: purple;'>themselves</span>, for <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> had felt
quite unhappy at the number of executions the Queen had ordered.
</p>
<p>
They very soon came upon a Gryphon, lying fast asleep in the sun. (If you
don’t know what a Gryphon is, look at the picture.) “Up, lazy
thing!” said the Queen, “and take this young lady to see the Mock
Turtle, and to hear his history. I must go back and see after some executions I
have ordered;” and she walked off, leaving <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alic</span> alone with the Gryphon.
<span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alic</span> did not quite like the look of the creature, but on the whole <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> thought
it would be quite as safe to stay with it as to go after that savage Queen: so
<span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> waited.
</p>
<p>
The Gryphon sat up and rubbed its eyes: then it watched the Queen till she was
out of sight: then it chuckled. “What fun!” said the Gryphon, half
to itself, half to <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alic</span>.
</p>
<p>
“What <i>is</i> the fun?” said <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alic</span>.
</p>
<p>
“Why, <i><span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span></i>,” said the Gryphon. “It’s all <span title='original: her' style='color: purple;'>their</span>
fancy, that: they never executes nobody, you know. Come on!”
</p>
<p>
“Everybody says ‘come on!’ here,” thought <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alic</span>, as <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span>
went slowly after it: “I never was so ordered about in all my life,
never!”
</p>
<p>
They had not gone far before they saw the Mock Turtle in the distance, sitting
sad and lonely on a little ledge of rock, and, as they came nearer, <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alic</span> could
hear him sighing as if his heart would break. <span title='original: She' style='color: purple;'>They</span> pitied him deeply.
“What is his sorrow?” <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> asked the Gryphon, and the Gryphon
answered, very nearly in the same words as before, “It’s all his
fancy, that: he hasn’t got no sorrow, you know. Come on!”
</p>
<p>
So they went up to the Mock Turtle, who looked at them with large eyes full of
tears, but said nothing.
</p>
<p>
“This here young <span title='original: lady' style='color: purple;'>person</span>,” said the Gryphon, “<span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> wants for to
know your history, <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> do.”
</p>
<p>
“I’ll tell it <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span>,” said the Mock Turtle in a deep, hollow
tone: “sit down, both of you, and don’t speak a word till
I’ve finished.”
</p>
<p>
So they sat down, and nobody spoke for some minutes. <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alic</span> thought to <span title='original: herself' style='color: purple;'>themselves</span>,
“I don’t see how he can <i>ever</i> finish, if he doesn’t
begin.” But <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> waited patiently.
</p>
<p>
“Once,” said the Mock Turtle at last, with a deep sigh, “I
was a real Turtle.”
</p>
<p>
These words were followed by a very long silence, broken only by an occasional
exclamation of “Hjckrrh!” from the Gryphon, and the constant heavy
sobbing of the Mock Turtle. <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alic</span> was very nearly getting up and saying,
“Thank you, sir, for your interesting story,” but <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> could not
help thinking there <i>must</i> be more to come, so <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> sat still and said
nothing.
</p>
<p>
“When we were little,” the Mock Turtle went on at last, more
calmly, though still sobbing a little now and then, “we went to school in
the sea. The master was an old Turtle—we used to call him
Tortoise—”
</p>
<p>
“Why did you call him Tortoise, if <span title='original: he' style='color: purple;'>they</span> <span title='original: was' style='color: purple;'>were</span>n’t one?” <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alic</span>
asked.
</p>
<p>
“We called <span title='original: him' style='color: purple;'>them</span> Tortoise because he taught us,” said the Mock Turtle
angrily: “really you are very dull!”
</p>
<p>
“You ought to be ashamed of yourself for asking such a simple
question,” added the Gryphon; and then they both sat silent and looked at
poor <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alic</span>, who felt ready to sink into the earth. At last the Gryphon said to
the Mock Turtle, “Drive on, old fellow! Don’t be all day about
it!” and he went on in these words:
</p>
<p>
“Yes, we went to school in the sea, though you mayn’t believe
it—”
</p>
<p>
“I never said I didn’t!” interrupted <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alic</span>.
</p>
<p>
“You did,” said the Mock Turtle.
</p>
<p>
“Hold your tongue!” added the Gryphon, before <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alic</span> could speak
again. The Mock Turtle went on.
</p>
<p>
“We had the best of educations—in fact, we went to school every
day—”
</p>
<p>
“<i>I’ve</i> been to a day-school, too,” said <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alic</span>;
“you needn’t be so proud as all that.”
</p>
<p>
“With extras?” asked the Mock Turtle a little anxiously.
</p>
<p>
“Yes,” said <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alic</span>, “we learned French and music.”
</p>
<p>
“And washing?” said the Mock Turtle.
</p>
<p>
“Certainly not!” said <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alic</span> indignantly.
</p>
<p>
“Ah! then yours wasn’t a really good school,” said the Mock
Turtle in a tone of great relief. “Now at <i>ours</i> they had at the end
of the bill, ‘French, music, <i>and
washing</i>—extra.’”
</p>
<p>
“You couldn’t have wanted it much,” said <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alic</span>; “living
at the bottom of the sea.”
</p>
<p>
“I couldn’t afford to learn it.” said the Mock Turtle with a
sigh. “I only took the regular course.”
</p>
<p>
“What was that?” inquired <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alic</span>.
</p>
<p>
“Reeling and Writhing, of course, to begin with,” the Mock Turtle
replied; “and then the different branches of Arithmetic—Ambition,
Distraction, Uglification, and Derision.”
</p>
<p>
“I never heard of ‘Uglification,’” <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alic</span> ventured to
say. “What is it?”
</p>
<p>
The Gryphon lifted up both its paws in surprise. “What! Never heard of
uglifying!” it exclaimed. “You know what to beautify is, I
suppose?”
</p>
<p>
“Yes,” said <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alic</span> doubtfully: “it
means—to—make—anything—prettier.”
</p>
<p>
“Well, then,” the Gryphon went on, “if you don’t know
what to uglify is, you <i>are</i> a simpleton.”
</p>
<p>
<span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alic</span> did not feel encouraged to ask any more questions about it, so <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> turned
to the Mock Turtle, and said “What else had you to learn?”
</p>
<p>
“Well, there was Mystery,” the Mock Turtle replied, counting off
the subjects on his flappers, “—Mystery, ancient and modern, with
Seaography: then Drawling—the Drawling-master was an old conger-eel, that
used to come once a week: <i>he</i> taught us Drawling, Stretching, and
Fainting in Coils.”
</p>
<p>
“What was <i>that</i> like?” said <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alic</span>.
</p>
<p>
“Well, I can’t show it you myself,” the Mock Turtle said:
“I’m too stiff. And the Gryphon never learnt it.”
</p>
<p>
“Hadn’t time,” said the Gryphon: “I went to the
Classics master, though. He was an old crab, <i>he</i> was.”
</p>
<p>
“I never went to him,” the Mock Turtle said with a sigh: “he
taught Laughing and Grief, they used to say.”
</p>
<p>
“So he did, so he did,” said the Gryphon, sighing in his turn; and
both creatures hid their faces in their paws.
</p>
<p>
“And how many hours a day did you do lessons?” said <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alic</span>, in a
hurry to change the subject.
</p>
<p>
“Ten hours the first day,” said the Mock Turtle: “nine the
next, and so on.”
</p>
<p>
“What a curious plan!” exclaimed <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alic</span>.
</p>
<p>
“That’s the reason they’re called lessons,” the Gryphon
remarked: “because they lessen from day to day.”
</p>
<p>
This was quite a new idea to <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alic</span>, and <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> thought it over a little before <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span>
made <span title='original: her' style='color: purple;'>their</span> next remark. “Then the eleventh day must have been a
holiday?”
</p>
<p>
“Of course it was,” said the Mock Turtle.
</p>
<p>
“And how did you manage on the twelfth?” <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alic</span> went on eagerly.
</p>
<p>
“That’s enough about lessons,” the Gryphon interrupted in a
very decided tone: “tell <span title='original: her' style='color: purple;'>them</span> something about the games now.”
</p>
</div><p><!--end chapter-->
</p></body></html>
