<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8"/><title>The Project Gutenberg eBook of <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alic</span>’s Adventures in Wonderland, by Lewis Carroll</title>
<link href="6269378934971248692_cover.jpg" rel="icon" type="image/x-cover" id="id-8875896598953579899"/>

<link href="0.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="1.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="pgepub.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta name="generator" content="Ebookmaker 0.12.21 by Project Gutenberg"/>
</head>
<body class="x-ebookmaker x-ebookmaker-3"><div class="chapter" id="pgepubid00009">
<h2><a id="chap06"/>CHAPTER VI.<br/>
Pig and Pepper</h2>
<p>
For a minute or two <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> stood looking at the house, and wondering what to do
next, when suddenly a footman in livery came running out of the wood—(<span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span>
considered him to be a footman because he was in livery: otherwise, judging by
his face only, <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> would have called him a fish)—and rapped loudly at the
door with his knuckles. It was opened by another footman in livery, with a
round face, and large eyes like a frog; and both footmen, <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alic</span> noticed, had
powdered hair that curled all over their heads. <span title='original: She' style='color: purple;'>They</span> felt very curious to know
what it was all about, and crept a little way out of the wood to listen.
</p>
<p>
The Fish-Footman began by producing from under his arm a great letter, nearly
as large as himself, and this he handed over to the other, saying, in a solemn
tone, “For the Duchess. An invitation from the Queen to play
croquet.” The Frog-Footman repeated, in the same solemn tone, only
changing the order of the words a little, “From the Queen. An invitation
for the Duchess to play croquet.”
</p>
<p>
Then they both bowed low, and their curls got entangled together.
</p>
<p>
<span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alic</span> laughed so much at this, that <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> had to run back into the wood for fear
of their hearing <span title='original: her' style='color: purple;'>them</span>; and when <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> next peeped out the Fish-Footman was gone,
and the other was sitting on the ground near the door, staring stupidly up into
the sky.
</p>
<p>
<span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alic</span> went timidly up to the door, and knocked.
</p>
<p>
“There’s no sort of use in knocking,” said the Footman,
“and that for two reasons. First, because I’m on the same side of
the door as you are; secondly, because they’re making such a noise
inside, no one could possibly hear you.” And certainly there <i>was</i> a
most extraordinary noise going on within—a constant howling and sneezing,
and every now and then a great crash, as if a dish or kettle had been broken to
pieces.
</p>
<p>
“Please, then,” said <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alic</span>, “how am I to get in?”
</p>
<p>
“There might be some sense in your knocking,” the Footman went on
without attending to <span title='original: her' style='color: purple;'>them</span>, “if we had the door between us. For instance,
if you were <i>inside</i>, you might knock, and I could let you out, you
know.” <span title='original: He' style='color: purple;'>They</span> <span title='original: was' style='color: purple;'>were</span> looking up into the sky all the time <span title='original: he' style='color: purple;'>they</span> <span title='original: was' style='color: purple;'>were</span> speaking, and
this <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alic</span> thought decidedly uncivil. “But perhaps <span title='original: he' style='color: purple;'>they</span> can’t help
it,” <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> said to <span title='original: herself' style='color: purple;'>themselves</span>; “<span title='original: his' style='color: purple;'>their</span> eyes are so <i>very</i> nearly at
the top of <span title='original: his' style='color: purple;'>their</span> head. But at any rate he might answer questions.—How am I
to get in?” <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> repeated, aloud.
</p>
<p>
“I shall sit here,” the Footman remarked, “till
tomorrow—”
</p>
<p>
At this moment the door of the house opened, and a large plate came skimming
out, straight at the Footman’s head: it just grazed his nose, and broke
to pieces against one of the trees behind him.
</p>
<p>
“—or next day, maybe,” the Footman continued in the same
tone, exactly as if nothing had happened.
</p>
<p>
“How am I to get in?” asked <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alic</span> again, in a louder tone.
</p>
<p>
“<i>Are</i> you to get in at all?” said the Footman.
“That’s the first question, you know.”
</p>
<p>
It was, no doubt: only <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alic</span> did not like to be told so. “It’s
really dreadful,” <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> muttered to <span title='original: herself' style='color: purple;'>themselves</span>, “the way all the
creatures argue. It’s enough to drive one crazy!”
</p>
<p>
The Footman seemed to think this a good opportunity for repeating his remark,
with variations. “I shall sit here,” he said, “on and off,
for days and days.”
</p>
<p>
“But what am <i>I</i> to do?” said <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alic</span>.
</p>
<p>
“Anything you like,” said the Footman, and began whistling.
</p>
<p>
“Oh, there’s no use in talking to him,” said <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alic</span>
desperately: “he’s perfectly idiotic!” And <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> opened the
door and went in.
</p>
<p>
The door led right into a large kitchen, which was full of smoke from one end
to the other: the Duchess was sitting on a three-legged stool in the middle,
nursing a baby; the cook was leaning over the fire, stirring a large cauldron
which seemed to be full of soup.
</p>
<p>
“There’s certainly too much pepper in that soup!” <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alic</span> said
to <span title='original: herself' style='color: purple;'>themselves</span>, as well as <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> could for sneezing.
</p>
<p>
There was certainly too much of it in the air. Even the Duchess sneezed
occasionally; and as for the baby, it was sneezing and howling alternately
without a moment’s pause. The only things in the kitchen that did not
sneeze, were the cook, and a large cat which was sitting on the hearth and
grinning from ear to ear.
</p>
<p>
“Please would you tell me,” said <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alic</span>, a little timidly, for <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span>
<span title='original: was' style='color: purple;'>were</span> not quite sure whether it was good manners for <span title='original: her' style='color: purple;'>them</span> to speak first,
“why your cat grins like that?”
</p>
<p>
“It’s a Cheshire cat,” said the Duchess, “and
that’s why. Pig!”
</p>
<p>
<span title='original: She' style='color: purple;'>They</span> said the last word with such sudden violence that <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alic</span> quite jumped; but
<span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> saw in another moment that it was addressed to the baby, and not to <span title='original: her' style='color: purple;'>them</span>, so
<span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> took courage, and went on again:—
</p>
<p>
“I didn’t know that Cheshire cats always grinned; in fact, I
didn’t know that cats <i>could</i> grin.”
</p>
<p>
“They all can,” said the Duchess; “and most of ’em
do.”
</p>
<p>
“I don’t know of any that do,” <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alic</span> said very politely,
feeling quite pleased to have got into a conversation.
</p>
<p>
“You don’t know much,” said the Duchess; “and
that’s a fact.”
</p>
<p>
<span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alic</span> did not at all like the tone of this remark, and thought it would be as
well to introduce some other subject of conversation. While <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> <span title='original: was' style='color: purple;'>were</span> trying to
fix on one, the cook took the cauldron of soup off the fire, and at once set to
work throwing everything within <span title='original: her' style='color: purple;'>their</span> reach at the Duchess and the baby—the
fire-irons came first; then followed a shower of saucepans, plates, and dishes.
The Duchess took no notice of them even when they hit <span title='original: her' style='color: purple;'>them</span>; and the baby was
howling so much already, that it was quite impossible to say whether the blows
hurt it or not.
</p>
<p>
“Oh, <i>please</i> mind what you’re doing!” cried <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alic</span>,
jumping up and down in an agony of terror. “Oh, there goes <span title='original: his' style='color: purple;'>their</span>
<i>precious</i> nose!” as an unusually large saucepan flew close by it,
and very nearly carried it off.
</p>
<p>
“If everybody minded their own business,” the Duchess said in a
hoarse growl, “the world would go round a deal faster than it
does.”
</p>
<p>
“Which would <i>not</i> be an advantage,” said <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alic</span>, who felt very
glad to get an opportunity of showing off a little of <span title='original: her' style='color: purple;'>their</span> knowledge.
“Just think of what work it would make with the day and night! You see
the earth takes twenty-four hours to turn round on its axis—”
</p>
<p>
“Talking of axes,” said the Duchess, “chop off <span title='original: her' style='color: purple;'>their</span>
head!”
</p>
<p>
<span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alic</span> glanced rather anxiously at the cook, to see if <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> meant to take the
hint; but the cook was busily stirring the soup, and seemed not to be
listening, so <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> went on again: “Twenty-four hours, I <i>think</i>; or
is it twelve? I—”
</p>
<p>
“Oh, don’t bother <i>me</i>,” said the Duchess; “I
never could abide figures!” And with that she began nursing her child
again, singing a sort of lullaby to it as she did so, and giving it a violent
shake at the end of every line:
</p>
<p class="poem">
“Speak roughly to your little boy,<br/>
    And beat him when he sneezes:<br/>
He only does it to annoy,<br/>
    Because he knows it teases.”
</p>
<p class="center">
CHORUS.<br/>
(In which the cook and the baby joined):
</p>
<p class="poem">
“Wow! wow! wow!”
</p>
<p>
While the Duchess sang the second verse of the song, she kept tossing the baby
violently up and down, and the poor little thing howled so, that <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alic</span> could
hardly hear the words:—
</p>
<p class="poem">
“I speak severely to my boy,<br/>
    I beat him when he sneezes;<br/>
For he can thoroughly enjoy<br/>
    The pepper when he pleases!”
</p>
<p class="center">
CHORUS.
</p>
<p class="poem">
“Wow! wow! wow!”
</p>
<p>
“Here! you may nurse it a bit, if you like!” the Duchess said to
<span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alic</span>, flinging the baby at <span title='original: her' style='color: purple;'>them</span> as <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> spoke. “I must go and get ready to
play croquet with the Queen,” and she hurried out of the room. The cook
threw a frying-pan after <span title='original: her' style='color: purple;'>them</span> as <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> went out, but it just missed <span title='original: her' style='color: purple;'>them</span>.
</p>
<p>
<span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alic</span> caught the baby with some difficulty, as it was a queer-shaped little
creature, and held out its arms and legs in all directions, “just like a
star-fish,” thought <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alic</span>. The poor little thing was snorting like a
steam-engine when <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> caught it, and kept doubling itself up and straightening
itself out again, so that altogether, for the first minute or two, it was as
much as <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> could do to hold it.
</p>
<p>
As soon as <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> had made out the proper way of nursing it, (which was to twist
it up into a sort of knot, and then keep tight hold of its right ear and left
foot, so as to prevent its undoing itself,) <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> carried it out into the open
air. “If I don’t take this child away with me,” thought
<span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alic</span>, “they’re sure to kill it in a day or two: wouldn’t it
be murder to leave it behind?” <span title='original: She' style='color: purple;'>They</span> said the last words out loud, and the
little thing grunted in reply (it had left off sneezing by this time).
“Don’t grunt,” said <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alic</span>; “that’s not at all a
proper way of expressing yourself.”
</p>
<p>
The baby grunted again, and <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alic</span> looked very anxiously into its face to see
what was the matter with it. There could be no doubt that it had a <i>very</i>
turn-up nose, much more like a snout than a real nose; also its eyes were
getting extremely small for a baby: altogether <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alic</span> did not like the look of
the thing at all. “But perhaps it was only sobbing,” <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> thought,
and looked into its eyes again, to see if there were any tears.
</p>
<p>
No, there were no tears. “If you’re going to turn into a pig, my
dear,” said <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alic</span>, seriously, “I’ll have nothing more to do
with you. Mind now!” The poor little thing sobbed again (or grunted, it
was impossible to say which), and they went on for some while in silence.
</p>
<p>
<span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alic</span> was just beginning to think to <span title='original: herself' style='color: purple;'>themselves</span>, “Now, what am I to do with
this creature when I get it home?” when it grunted again, so violently,
that <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> looked down into its face in some alarm. This time there could be
<i>no</i> mistake about it: it was neither more nor less than a pig, and <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span>
felt that it would be quite absurd for <span title='original: her' style='color: purple;'>them</span> to carry it further.
</p>
<p>
So <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> set the little creature down, and felt quite relieved to see it trot
away quietly into the wood. “If it had grown up,” <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> said to
<span title='original: herself' style='color: purple;'>themselves</span>, “it would have made a dreadfully ugly child: but it makes rather
a handsome pig, I think.” And <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> began thinking over other children <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span>
knew, who might do very well as pigs, and was just saying to <span title='original: herself' style='color: purple;'>themselves</span>, “if
one only knew the right way to change them—” when <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> <span title='original: was' style='color: purple;'>were</span> a little
startled by seeing the Cheshire Cat sitting on a bough of a tree a few yards
off.
</p>
<p>
The Cat only grinned when it saw <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alic</span>. It looked good-natured, <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> thought:
still it had <i>very</i> long claws and a great many teeth, so <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> felt that it
ought to be treated with respect.
</p>
<p>
“Cheshire Puss,” <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> began, rather timidly, as <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> did not at all
know whether it would like the name: however, it only grinned a little wider.
“Come, it’s pleased so far,” thought <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alic</span>, and <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> went on.
“Would you tell me, please, which way I ought to go from here?”
</p>
<p>
“That depends a good deal on where you want to get to,” said the
Cat.
</p>
<p>
“I don’t much care where—” said <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alic</span>.
</p>
<p>
“Then it doesn’t matter which way you go,” said the Cat.
</p>
<p>
“—so long as I get <i>somewhere</i>,” <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alic</span> added as an
explanation.
</p>
<p>
“Oh, you’re sure to do that,” said the Cat, “if you
only walk long enough.”
</p>
<p>
<span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alic</span> felt that this could not be denied, so <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> tried another question.
“What sort of people live about here?”
</p>
<p>
“In <i>that</i> direction,” the Cat said, waving its right paw
round, “lives a Hatter: and in <i>that</i> direction,” waving the
other paw, “lives a March Hare. Visit either you like: they’re both
mad.”
</p>
<p>
“But I don’t want to go among mad people,” <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alic</span> remarked.
</p>
<p>
“Oh, you can’t help that,” said the Cat: “we’re
all mad here. I’m mad. You’re mad.”
</p>
<p>
“How do you know I’m mad?” said <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alic</span>.
</p>
<p>
“You must be,” said the Cat, “or you wouldn’t have come
here.”
</p>
<p>
<span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alic</span> didn’t think that proved it at all; however, <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> went on “And
how do you know that you’re mad?”
</p>
<p>
“To begin with,” said the Cat, “a dog’s not mad. You
grant that?”
</p>
<p>
“I suppose so,” said <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alic</span>.
</p>
<p>
“Well, then,” the Cat went on, “you see, a dog growls when
it’s angry, and wags its tail when it’s pleased. Now <i>I</i> growl
when I’m pleased, and wag my tail when I’m angry. Therefore
I’m mad.”
</p>
<p>
“<i>I</i> call it purring, not growling,” said <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alic</span>.
</p>
<p>
“Call it what you like,” said the Cat. “Do you play croquet
with the Queen to-day?”
</p>
<p>
“I should like it very much,” said <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alic</span>, “but I
haven’t been invited yet.”
</p>
<p>
“You’ll see me there,” said the Cat, and vanished.
</p>
<p>
<span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alic</span> was not much surprised at this, <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> <span title='original: was' style='color: purple;'>were</span> getting so used to queer things
happening. While <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> <span title='original: was' style='color: purple;'>were</span> looking at the place where it had been, it suddenly
appeared again.
</p>
<p>
“By-the-bye, what became of the baby?” said the Cat.
“I’d nearly forgotten to ask.”
</p>
<p>
“It turned into a pig,” <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alic</span> quietly said, just as if it had come
back in a natural way.
</p>
<p>
“I thought it would,” said the Cat, and vanished again.
</p>
<p>
<span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alic</span> waited a little, half expecting to see it again, but it did not appear,
and after a minute or two <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> walked on in the direction in which the March
Hare was said to live. “I’ve seen hatters before,” <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> said
to <span title='original: herself' style='color: purple;'>themselves</span>; “the March Hare will be much the most interesting, and
perhaps as this is May it won’t be raving mad—at least not so mad
as it was in March.” As <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> said this, <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> looked up, and there was the
Cat again, sitting on a branch of a tree.
</p>
<p>
“Did you say pig, or fig?” said the Cat.
</p>
<p>
“I said pig,” replied <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alic</span>; “and I wish you wouldn’t
keep appearing and vanishing so suddenly: you make one quite giddy.”
</p>
<p>
“All right,” said the Cat; and this time it vanished quite slowly,
beginning with the end of the tail, and ending with the grin, which remained
some time after the rest of it had gone.
</p>
<p>
“Well! I’ve often seen a cat without a grin,” thought <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alic</span>;
“but a grin without a cat! It’s the most curious thing I ever saw
in my life!”
</p>
<p>
<span title='original: She' style='color: purple;'>They</span> had not gone much farther before <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> came in sight of the house of the
March Hare: <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> thought it must be the right house, because the chimneys were
shaped like ears and the roof was thatched with fur. It was so large a house,
that <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> did not like to go nearer till <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> had nibbled some more of the
lefthand bit of mushroom, and raised <span title='original: herself' style='color: purple;'>themselves</span> to about two feet high: even then
<span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> walked up towards it rather timidly, saying to <span title='original: herself' style='color: purple;'>themselves</span> “Suppose it
should be raving mad after all! I almost wish I’d gone to see the Hatter
instead!”
</p>
</div><p><!--end chapter-->
</p></body></html>
