<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8"/><title>The Project Gutenberg eBook of <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alix</span>’s Adventures in Wonderland, by Lewis Carroll</title>
<link href="6269378934971248692_cover.jpg" rel="icon" type="image/x-cover" id="id-8875896598953579899"/>

<link href="0.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="1.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="pgepub.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta name="generator" content="Ebookmaker 0.12.21 by Project Gutenberg"/>
</head>
<body class="x-ebookmaker x-ebookmaker-3"><div class="chapter" id="pgepubid00011">
<h2><a id="chap08"/>CHAPTER VIII.<br/>
The Queen’s Croquet-Ground</h2>
<p>
A large rose-tree stood near the entrance of the garden: the roses growing on
it were white, but there were three gardeners at it, busily painting them red.
<span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alix</span> thought this a very curious thing, and <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> went nearer to watch them, and
just as <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> came up to them <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> heard one of them say, “Look out now,
Five! Don’t go splashing paint over me like that!”
</p>
<p>
“I couldn’t help it,” said Five, in a sulky tone;
“Seven jogged my elbow.”
</p>
<p>
On which Seven looked up and said, “That’s right, Five! Always lay
the blame on others!”
</p>
<p>
“<i>You’d</i> better not talk!” said Five. “I heard the
Queen say only yesterday you deserved to be beheaded!”
</p>
<p>
“What for?” said the one who had spoken first.
</p>
<p>
“That’s none of <i>your</i> business, Two!” said Seven.
</p>
<p>
“Yes, it <i>is</i> his business!” said Five, “and I’ll
tell him—it was for bringing the cook tulip-roots instead of
onions.”
</p>
<p>
Seven flung down his brush, and had just begun “Well, of all the unjust
things—” when his eye chanced to fall upon <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alix</span>, as <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> stood
watching them, and he checked himself suddenly: the others looked round also,
and all of them bowed low.
</p>
<p>
“Would you tell me,” said <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alix</span>, a little timidly, “why you
are painting those roses?”
</p>
<p>
Five and Seven said nothing, but looked at Two. Two began in a low voice,
  “Why the fact is, you see, <span title='original: Miss' style='color: purple;'>Mx</span>, this here ought to have been a
<i>red</i> rose-tree, and we put a white one in by mistake; and if the Queen
was to find it out, we should all have our heads cut off, you know. So you see,
  <span title='original: Miss' style='color: purple;'>Mx</span>, we’re doing our best, afore she comes, to—” At this
moment Five, who had been anxiously looking across the garden, called out
“The Queen! The Queen!” and the three gardeners instantly threw
themselves flat upon their faces. There was a sound of many footsteps, and
<span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alix</span> looked round, eager to see the Queen.
</p>
<p>
First came ten soldiers carrying clubs; these were all shaped like the three
gardeners, oblong and flat, with their hands and feet at the corners: next the
ten courtiers; these were ornamented all over with diamonds, and walked two and
two, as the soldiers did. After these came the royal children; there were ten
of them, and the little dears came jumping merrily along hand in hand, in
couples: they were all ornamented with hearts. Next came the guests, mostly
Kings and Queens, and among them <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alix</span> recognised the White Rabbit: it was
talking in a hurried nervous manner, smiling at everything that was said, and
went by without noticing <span title='original: her' style='color: purple;'>them</span>. Then followed the Knave of Hearts, carrying the
King’s crown on a crimson velvet cushion; and, last of all this grand
procession, came THE KING AND QUEEN OF HEARTS.
</p>
<p>
<span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alix</span> was rather doubtful whether <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> ought not to lie down on <span title='original: her' style='color: purple;'>their</span> face like
the three gardeners, but <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> could not remember ever having heard of such a
rule at processions; “and besides, what would be the use of a
procession,” thought <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span>, “if people had all to lie down upon their
faces, so that they couldn’t see it?” So <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> stood still where <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span>
<span title='original: was' style='color: purple;'>were</span>, and waited.
</p>
<p>
When the procession came opposite to <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alix</span>, they all stopped and looked at <span title='original: her' style='color: purple;'>them</span>,
and the Queen said severely “Who is this?” <span title='original: She' style='color: purple;'>They</span> said it to the Knave
of Hearts, who only bowed and smiled in reply.
</p>
<p>
“Idiot!” said the Queen, tossing her head impatiently; and, turning
to <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alix</span>, she went on, “What’s your name, child?”
</p>
<p>
“My name is <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alix</span>, so please your Majesty,” said <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alix</span> very
politely; but <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> added, to <span title='original: herself' style='color: purple;'>themselves</span>, “Why, they’re only a pack of
cards, after all. I needn’t be afraid of them!”
</p>
<p>
“And who are <i>these?</i>” said the Queen, pointing to the three
gardeners who were lying round the rose-tree; for, you see, as they were lying
on their faces, and the pattern on their backs was the same as the rest of the
pack, she could not tell whether they were gardeners, or soldiers, or
courtiers, or three of her own children.
</p>
<p>
“How should <i>I</i> know?” said <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alix</span>, surprised at <span title='original: her' style='color: purple;'>their</span> own
courage. “It’s no business of <i>mine</i>.”
</p>
<p>
The Queen turned crimson with fury, and, after glaring at <span title='original: her' style='color: purple;'>them</span> for a moment like
a wild beast, screamed “Off with <span title='original: her' style='color: purple;'>their</span> head! Off—”
</p>
<p>
“Nonsense!” said <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alix</span>, very loudly and decidedly, and the Queen
was silent.
</p>
<p>
The King laid his hand upon her arm, and timidly said “Consider, my dear:
<span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> <span title='original: is' style='color: purple;'>are</span> only a child!”
</p>
<p>
The Queen turned angrily away from him, and said to the Knave “Turn them
over!”
</p>
<p>
The Knave did so, very carefully, with one foot.
</p>
<p>
“Get up!” said the Queen, in a shrill, loud voice, and the three
gardeners instantly jumped up, and began bowing to the King, the Queen, the
royal children, and everybody else.
</p>
<p>
“Leave off that!” screamed the Queen. “You make me
giddy.” And then, turning to the rose-tree, she went on, “What
<i>have</i> you been doing here?”
</p>
<p>
“May it please your Majesty,” said Two, in a very humble tone,
going down on one knee as he spoke, “we were trying—”
</p>
<p>
“<i>I</i> see!” said the Queen, who had meanwhile been examining
the roses. “Off with their heads!” and the procession moved on,
three of the soldiers remaining behind to execute the unfortunate gardeners,
who ran to <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alix</span> for protection.
</p>
<p>
“You shan’t be beheaded!” said <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alix</span>, and <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> put them into a
large flower-pot that stood near. The three soldiers wandered about for a
minute or two, looking for them, and then quietly marched off after the others.
</p>
<p>
“Are their heads off?” shouted the Queen.
</p>
<p>
“Their heads are gone, if it please your Majesty!” the soldiers
shouted in reply.
</p>
<p>
“That’s right!” shouted the Queen. “Can you play
croquet?”
</p>
<p>
The soldiers were silent, and looked at <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alix</span>, as the question was evidently
meant for <span title='original: her' style='color: purple;'>them</span>.
</p>
<p>
“Yes!” shouted <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alix</span>.
</p>
<p>
“Come on, then!” roared the Queen, and <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alix</span> joined the procession,
wondering very much what would happen next.
</p>
<p>
“It’s—it’s a very fine day!” said a timid voice
at <span title='original: her' style='color: purple;'>their</span> side. <span title='original: She' style='color: purple;'>They</span> <span title='original: was' style='color: purple;'>were</span> walking by the White Rabbit, who was peeping anxiously
into <span title='original: her' style='color: purple;'>their</span> face.
</p>
<p>
“Very,” said <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alix</span>: “—where’s the Duchess?”
</p>
<p>
“Hush! Hush!” said the Rabbit in a low, hurried tone. He looked
anxiously over his shoulder as he spoke, and then raised himself upon tiptoe,
put his mouth close to <span title='original: her' style='color: purple;'>their</span> ear, and whispered “She’s under sentence
of execution.”
</p>
<p>
“What for?” said <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alix</span>.
</p>
<p>
“Did you say ‘What a pity!’?” the Rabbit asked.
</p>
<p>
“No, I didn’t,” said <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alix</span>: “I don’t think
it’s at all a pity. I said ‘What for?’”
</p>
<p>
“She boxed the Queen’s ears—” the Rabbit began. <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alix</span>
gave a little scream of laughter. “Oh, hush!” the Rabbit whispered
in a frightened tone. “The Queen will hear you! You see, she came rather
late, and the Queen said—”
</p>
<p>
“Get to your places!” shouted the Queen in a voice of thunder, and
people began running about in all directions, tumbling up against each other;
however, they got settled down in a minute or two, and the game began. <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alix</span>
thought <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> had never seen such a curious croquet-ground in <span title='original: her' style='color: purple;'>their</span> life; it was
all ridges and furrows; the balls were live hedgehogs, the mallets live
flamingoes, and the soldiers had to double themselves up and to stand on their
hands and feet, to make the arches.
</p>
<p>
The chief difficulty <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alix</span> found at first was in managing <span title='original: her' style='color: purple;'>their</span> flamingo: <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span>
succeeded in getting its body tucked away, comfortably enough, under <span title='original: her' style='color: purple;'>their</span> arm,
with its legs hanging down, but generally, just as <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> had got its neck nicely
straightened out, and was going to give the hedgehog a blow with its head, it
<i>would</i> twist itself round and look up in <span title='original: her' style='color: purple;'>their</span> face, with such a puzzled
expression that <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> could not help bursting out laughing: and when <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> had got
  its head down, and <span title='original: was' style='color: purple;'>were</span> going to begin again, it was very provoking to find that
the hedgehog had unrolled itself, and was in the act of crawling away: besides
all this, there was generally a ridge or furrow in the way wherever <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> wanted
to send the hedgehog to, and, as the doubled-up soldiers were always getting up
and walking off to other parts of the ground, <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alix</span> soon came to the conclusion
that it was a very difficult game indeed.
</p>
<p>
The players all played at once without waiting for turns, quarrelling all the
while, and fighting for the hedgehogs; and in a very short time the Queen was
in a furious passion, and went stamping about, and shouting “Off with his
head!” or “Off with her head!” about once in a minute.
</p>
<p>
<span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alix</span> began to feel very uneasy: to be sure, <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> had not as yet had any dispute
with the Queen, but <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> knew that it might happen any minute, “and
then,” thought <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span>, “what would become of me? They’re
dreadfully fond of beheading people here; the great wonder is, that
there’s any one left alive!”
</p>
<p>
<span title='original: She' style='color: purple;'>They</span> <span title='original: was' style='color: purple;'>were</span> looking about for some way of escape, and wondering whether <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> could
get away without being seen, when <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> noticed a curious appearance in the air:
it puzzled <span title='original: her' style='color: purple;'>them</span> very much at first, but, after watching it a minute or two, <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span>
made it out to be a grin, and <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> said to <span title='original: herself' style='color: purple;'>themselves</span> “It’s the
Cheshire Cat: now I shall have somebody to talk to.”
</p>
<p>
“How are you getting on?” said the Cat, as soon as there was mouth
enough for it to speak with.
</p>
<p>
<span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alix</span> waited till the eyes appeared, and then nodded. “It’s no use
speaking to it,” <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> thought, “till its ears have come, or at least
one of them.” In another minute the whole head appeared, and then <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alix</span>
put down <span title='original: her' style='color: purple;'>their</span> flamingo, and began an account of the game, feeling very glad <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span>
had someone to listen to <span title='original: her' style='color: purple;'>them</span>. The Cat seemed to think that there was enough of
it now in sight, and no more of it appeared.
</p>
<p>
“I don’t think they play at all fairly,” <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alix</span> began, in
rather a complaining tone, “and they all quarrel so dreadfully one
can’t hear oneself speak—and they don’t seem to have any
rules in particular; at least, if there are, nobody attends to them—and
you’ve no idea how confusing it is all the things being alive; for
instance, there’s the arch I’ve got to go through next walking
about at the other end of the ground—and I should have croqueted the
Queen’s hedgehog just now, only it ran away when it saw mine
coming!”
</p>
<p>
“How do you like the Queen?” said the Cat in a low voice.
</p>
<p>
“Not at all,” said <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alix</span>: “she’s so
extremely—” Just then <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> noticed that the Queen was close behind
<span title='original: her' style='color: purple;'>them</span>, listening: so <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> went on, “—likely to win, that it’s
hardly worth while finishing the game.”
</p>
<p>
The Queen smiled and passed on.
</p>
<p>
“Who <i>are</i> you talking to?” said the King, going up to <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alix</span>,
and looking at the Cat’s head with great curiosity.
</p>
<p>
“It’s a friend of mine—a Cheshire Cat,” said <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alix</span>:
“allow me to introduce it.”
</p>
<p>
“I don’t like the look of it at all,” said the King:
“however, it may kiss my hand if it likes.”
</p>
<p>
“I’d rather not,” the Cat remarked.
</p>
<p>
“Don’t be impertinent,” said the King, “and don’t
look at me like that!” He got behind <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alix</span> as he spoke.
</p>
<p>
“A cat may look at a king,” said <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alix</span>. “I’ve read that
in some book, but I don’t remember where.”
</p>
<p>
“Well, it must be removed,” said the King very decidedly, and he
called the Queen, who was passing at the moment, “My dear! I wish you
would have this cat removed!”
</p>
<p>
The Queen had only one way of settling all difficulties, great or small.
“Off with his head!” she said, without even looking round.
</p>
<p>
“I’ll fetch the executioner myself,” said the King eagerly,
and he hurried off.
</p>
<p>
<span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alix</span> thought <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> might as well go back, and see how the game was going on, as
<span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> heard the Queen’s voice in the distance, screaming with passion. <span title='original: She' style='color: purple;'>They</span>
had already heard her sentence three of the players to be executed for having
missed their turns, and <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> did not like the look of things at all, as the game
was in such confusion that <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> never knew whether it was <span title='original: her' style='color: purple;'>their</span> turn or not. So
<span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> went in search of <span title='original: her' style='color: purple;'>their</span> hedgehog.
</p>
<p>
The hedgehog was engaged in a fight with another hedgehog, which seemed to
<span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alix</span> an excellent opportunity for croqueting one of them with the other: the
only difficulty was, that <span title='original: her' style='color: purple;'>their</span> flamingo was gone across to the other side of the
garden, where <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alix</span> could see it trying in a helpless sort of way to fly up
into a tree.
</p>
<p>
By the time <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> had caught the flamingo and brought it back, the fight was
over, and both the hedgehogs were out of sight: “but it doesn’t
matter much,” thought <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alix</span>, “as all the arches are gone from this
side of the ground.” So <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> tucked it away under <span title='original: her' style='color: purple;'>their</span> arm, that it might
not escape again, and went back for a little more conversation with <span title='original: her' style='color: purple;'>their</span> friend.
</p>
<p>
When <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> got back to the Cheshire Cat, <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> <span title='original: was' style='color: purple;'>were</span> surprised to find quite a large
crowd collected round it: there was a dispute going on between the executioner,
the King, and the Queen, who were all talking at once, while all the rest were
quite silent, and looked very uncomfortable.
</p>
<p>
The moment <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alix</span> appeared, <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> <span title='original: was' style='color: purple;'>were</span> appealed to by all three to settle the
question, and they repeated their arguments to <span title='original: her' style='color: purple;'>them</span>, though, as they all spoke
at once, <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>Alix</span> found it very hard indeed to make out exactly what they said.
</p>
<p>
The executioner’s argument was, that you couldn’t cut off a head
unless there was a body to cut it off from: that he had never had to do such a
thing before, and he wasn’t going to begin at <i>his</i> time of life.
</p>
<p>
The King’s argument was, that anything that had a head could be beheaded,
and that you weren’t to talk nonsense.
</p>
<p>
The Queen’s argument was, that if something wasn’t done about it in
less than no time she’d have everybody executed, all round. (It was this
last remark that had made the whole party look so grave and anxious.)
</p>
<p>
<span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alix</span> could think of nothing else to say but “It belongs to the Duchess:
you’d better ask <i>her</i> about it.”
</p>
<p>
“She’s in prison,” the Queen said to the executioner:
“fetch her here.” And the executioner went off like an arrow.
</p>
<p>
The Cat’s head began fading away the moment he was gone, and, by the time
he had come back with the Duchess, it had entirely disappeared; so the King and
the executioner ran wildly up and down looking for it, while the rest of the
party went back to the game.
</p>
</div><p><!--end chapter-->
</p></body></html>
