<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8"/><title>The Project Gutenberg eBook of <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alic</span>’s Adventures in Wonderland, by Lewis Carroll</title>
<link href="6269378934971248692_cover.jpg" rel="icon" type="image/x-cover" id="id-8875896598953579899"/>

<link href="0.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="1.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="pgepub.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta name="generator" content="Ebookmaker 0.12.21 by Project Gutenberg"/>
</head>
<body class="x-ebookmaker x-ebookmaker-3"><div class="chapter" id="pgepubid00007">
<h2><a id="chap04"/>CHAPTER IV.<br/>
The Rabbit Sends in a Little Bill</h2>
<p>
It was the White Rabbit, trotting slowly back again, and looking anxiously
about as it went, as if it had lost something; and <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> heard it muttering to
itself “The Duchess! The Duchess! Oh my dear paws! Oh my fur and
whiskers! She’ll get me executed, as sure as ferrets are ferrets! Where
<i>can</i> I have dropped them, I wonder?” <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alic</span> guessed in a moment that
it was looking for the fan and the pair of white kid gloves, and <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> very
good-naturedly began hunting about for them, but they were nowhere to be
seen—everything seemed to have changed since <span title='original: her' style='color: purple;'>their</span> swim in the pool, and
the great hall, with the glass table and the little door, had vanished
completely.
</p>
<p>
Very soon the Rabbit noticed <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alic</span>, as <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> went hunting about, and called out
to <span title='original: her' style='color: purple;'>them</span> in an angry tone, “Why, Mary Ann, what <i>are</i> you doing out
here? Run home this moment, and fetch me a pair of gloves and a fan! Quick,
now!” And <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alic</span> was so much frightened that <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> ran off at once in the
direction it pointed to, without trying to explain the mistake it had made.
</p>
<p>
“He took me for his housemaid,” <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> said to <span title='original: herself' style='color: purple;'>themselves</span> as <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> ran.
“How surprised he’ll be when he finds out who I am! But I’d
better take him his fan and gloves—that is, if I can find them.” As
<span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> said this, <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> came upon a neat little house, on the door of which was a
bright brass plate with the name “W. RABBIT,” engraved upon it. <span title='original: She' style='color: purple;'>They</span>
went in without knocking, and hurried upstairs, in great fear lest <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> should
meet the real Mary Ann, and be turned out of the house before <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> had found the
fan and gloves.
</p>
<p>
“How queer it seems,” <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alic</span> said to <span title='original: herself' style='color: purple;'>themselves</span>, “to be going
messages for a rabbit! I suppose Dinah’ll be sending me on messages
next!” And <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> began fancying the sort of thing that would happen:
“‘Miss <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alic</span>! Come here directly, and get ready for your
walk!’ ‘Coming in a minute, nurse! But I’ve got to see that
the mouse doesn’t get out.’ Only I don’t think,” <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alic</span>
went on, “that they’d let Dinah stop in the house if it began
ordering people about like that!”
</p>
<p>
By this time <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> had found <span title='original: her' style='color: purple;'>their</span> way into a tidy little room with a table in the
window, and on it (as <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> had hoped) a fan and two or three pairs of tiny white
kid gloves: <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> took up the fan and a pair of the gloves, and was just going to
leave the room, when <span title='original: her' style='color: purple;'>their</span> eye fell upon a little bottle that stood near the
looking-glass. There was no label this time with the words “DRINK
ME,” but nevertheless <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> uncorked it and put it to <span title='original: her' style='color: purple;'>their</span> lips. “I
know <i>something</i> interesting is sure to happen,” <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> said to
<span title='original: herself' style='color: purple;'>themselves</span>, “whenever I eat or drink anything; so I’ll just see what
this bottle does. I do hope it’ll make me grow large again, for really
I’m quite tired of being such a tiny little thing!”
</p>
<p>
It did so indeed, and much sooner than <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> had expected: before <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> had drunk
half the bottle, <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> found <span title='original: her' style='color: purple;'>head</span> head pressing against the ceiling, and had to
stoop to save <span title='original: her' style='color: purple;'>their</span> neck from being broken. <span title='original: She' style='color: purple;'>They</span> hastily put down the bottle,
saying to <span title='original: herself' style='color: purple;'>themselves</span> “That’s quite enough—I hope I shan’t
grow any more—As it is, I can’t get out at the door—I do wish
I hadn’t drunk quite so much!”
</p>
<p>
Alas! it was too late to wish that! <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>They</span> went on growing, and growing, and very
soon had to kneel down on the floor: in another minute there was not even room
for this, and <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> tried the effect of lying down with one elbow against the
door, and the other arm curled round <span title='original: her' style='color: purple;'>their</span> head. Still <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> went on growing, and,
as a last resource, <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> put one arm out of the window, and one foot up the
chimney, and said to <span title='original: herself' style='color: purple;'>themselves</span> “Now I can do no more, whatever happens.
What <i>will</i> become of me?”
</p>
<p>
Luckily for <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alic</span>, the little magic bottle had now had its full effect, and <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span>
grew no larger: still it was very uncomfortable, and, as there seemed to be no
sort of chance of <span title='original: her' style='color: purple;'>them</span> ever getting out of the room again, no wonder <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> felt
unhappy.
</p>
<p>
“It was much pleasanter at home,” thought poor <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alic</span>, “when
one wasn’t always growing larger and smaller, and being ordered about by
mice and rabbits. I almost wish I hadn’t gone down that
rabbit-hole—and yet—and yet—it’s rather curious, you
know, this sort of life! I do wonder what <i>can</i> have happened to me! When
I used to read fairy-tales, I fancied that kind of thing never happened, and
now here I am in the middle of one! There ought to be a book written about me,
that there ought! And when I grow up, I’ll write one—but I’m
grown up now,” <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> added in a sorrowful tone; “at least
there’s no room to grow up any more <i>here</i>.”
</p>
<p>
“But then,” thought <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alic</span>, “shall I <i>never</i> get any
older than I am now? That’ll be a comfort, one way—never to be an
old woman—but then—always to have lessons to learn! Oh, I
shouldn’t like <i>that!</i>”
</p>
<p>
“Oh, you foolish <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alic</span>!” <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> answered <span title='original: herself' style='color: purple;'>themselves</span>. “How can you
learn lessons in here? Why, there’s hardly room for <i>you</i>, and no
room at all for any lesson-books!”
</p>
<p>
And so <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> went on, taking first one side and then the other, and making quite
a conversation of it altogether; but after a few minutes <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> heard a voice
outside, and stopped to listen.
</p>
<p>
“Mary Ann! Mary Ann!” said the voice. “Fetch me my gloves
this moment!” Then came a little pattering of feet on the stairs. <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alic</span>
knew it was the Rabbit coming to look for <span title='original: her' style='color: purple;'>them</span>, and <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> trembled till <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> shook
the house, quite forgetting that <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> <span title='original: was' style='color: purple;'>were</span> now about a thousand times as large as
the Rabbit, and had no reason to be afraid of it.
</p>
<p>
Presently the Rabbit came up to the door, and tried to open it; but, as the
door opened inwards, and <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alic</span>’s elbow was pressed hard against it, that
attempt proved a failure. <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alic</span> heard it say to itself “Then I’ll
go round and get in at the window.”
</p>
<p>
“<i>That</i> you won’t!” thought <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alic</span>, and, after waiting
till <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> fancied <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> heard the Rabbit just under the window, <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> suddenly
spread out <span title='original: her' style='color: purple;'>their</span> hand, and made a snatch in the air. <span title='original: She' style='color: purple;'>They</span> did not get hold of
anything, but <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> heard a little shriek and a fall, and a crash of broken
glass, from which <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> concluded that it was just possible it had fallen into a
cucumber-frame, or something of the sort.
</p>
<p>
Next came an angry voice—the Rabbit’s—“Pat! Pat! Where
are you?” And then a voice <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> had never heard before, “Sure then
I’m here! Digging for apples, yer honour!”
</p>
<p>
“Digging for apples, indeed!” said the Rabbit angrily. “Here!
Come and help me out of <i>this!</i>” (Sounds of more broken glass.)
</p>
<p>
“Now tell me, Pat, what’s that in the window?”
</p>
<p>
“Sure, it’s an arm, yer honour!” (He pronounced it
“arrum.”)
</p>
<p>
“An arm, you goose! Who ever saw one that size? Why, it fills the whole
window!”
</p>
<p>
“Sure, it does, yer honour: but it’s an arm for all that.”
</p>
<p>
“Well, it’s got no business there, at any rate: go and take it
away!”
</p>
<p>
There was a long silence after this, and <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alic</span> could only hear whispers now and
then; such as, “Sure, I don’t like it, yer honour, at all, at
all!” “Do as I tell you, you coward!” and at last <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> spread
out <span title='original: her' style='color: purple;'>their</span> hand again, and made another snatch in the air. This time there were
<i>two</i> little shrieks, and more sounds of broken glass. “What a
number of cucumber-frames there must be!” thought <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alic</span>. “I wonder
what they’ll do next! As for pulling me out of the window, I only wish
they <i>could!</i> I’m sure <i>I</i> don’t want to stay in here any
longer!”
</p>
<p>
<span title='original: She' style='color: purple;'>They</span> waited for some time without hearing anything more: at last came a rumbling
of little cartwheels, and the sound of a good many voices all talking together:
<span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> made out the words: “Where’s the other ladder?—Why, I
hadn’t to bring but one; Bill’s got the other—Bill! fetch it
here, lad!—Here, put ’em up at this corner—No, tie ’em
together first—they don’t reach half high enough yet—Oh!
they’ll do well enough; don’t be particular—Here, Bill! catch
hold of this rope—Will the roof bear?—Mind that loose
slate—Oh, it’s coming down! Heads below!” (a loud
crash)—“Now, who did that?—It was Bill, I
fancy—Who’s to go down the chimney?—Nay, <i>I</i>
shan’t! <i>You</i> do it!—<i>That</i> I won’t,
then!—Bill’s to go down—Here, Bill! the master says
you’re to go down the chimney!”
</p>
<p>
“Oh! So Bill’s got to come down the chimney, has he?” said
<span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alic</span> to <span title='original: herself' style='color: purple;'>themselves</span>. “Shy, they seem to put everything upon Bill! I
wouldn’t be in Bill’s place for a good deal: this fireplace is
narrow, to be sure; but I <i>think</i> I can kick a little!”
</p>
<p>
<span title='original: She' style='color: purple;'>They</span> drew <span title='original: her' style='color: purple;'>their</span> foot as far down the chimney as <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> could, and waited till she
heard a little animal (<span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> couldn’t guess of what sort it was) scratching
and scrambling about in the chimney close above <span title='original: her' style='color: purple;'>them</span>: then, saying to <span title='original: herself' style='color: purple;'>themselves</span>
“This is Bill,” <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> gave one sharp kick, and waited to see what
would happen next.
</p>
<p>
The first thing <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> heard was a general chorus of “There goes
Bill!” then the Rabbit’s voice along—“Catch him, you by
the hedge!” then silence, and then another confusion of
voices—“Hold up his head—Brandy now—Don’t choke
him—How was it, old fellow? What happened to you? Tell us all about
it!”
</p>
<p>
Last came a little feeble, squeaking voice, (“That’s Bill,”
thought <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alic</span>,) “Well, I hardly know—No more, thank ye; I’m
better now—but I’m a deal too flustered to tell you—all I
know is, something comes at me like a Jack-in-the-box, and up I goes like a
sky-rocket!”
</p>
<p>
“So you did, old fellow!” said the others.
</p>
<p>
“We must burn the house down!” said the Rabbit’s voice; and
<span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alic</span> called out as loud as <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> could, “If you do, I’ll set Dinah
at you!”
</p>
<p>
There was a dead silence instantly, and <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alic</span> thought to <span title='original: herself' style='color: purple;'>themselves</span>, “I
wonder what they <i>will</i> do next! If they had any sense, they’d take
the roof off.” After a minute or two, they began moving about again, and
<span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alic</span> heard the Rabbit say, “A barrowful will do, to begin with.”
</p>
<p>
“A barrowful of <i>what?</i>” thought <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alic</span>; but <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> had not long
to doubt, for the next moment a shower of little pebbles came rattling in at
the window, and some of them hit <span title='original: her' style='color: purple;'>them</span> in the face. “I’ll put a stop
to this,” <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> said to <span title='original: herself' style='color: purple;'>themselves</span>, and shouted out, “You’d better
not do that again!” which produced another dead silence.
</p>
<p>
<span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alic</span> noticed with some surprise that the pebbles were all turning into little
cakes as they lay on the floor, and a bright idea came into <span title='original: her' style='color: purple;'>their</span> head. “If
I eat one of these cakes,” <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> thought, “it’s sure to make
<i>some</i> change in my size; and as it can’t possibly make me larger,
it must make me smaller, I suppose.”
</p>
<p>
So <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> swallowed one of the cakes, and was delighted to find that <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> began
shrinking directly. As soon as <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> <span title='original: was' style='color: purple;'>were</span> small enough to get through the door,
<span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> ran out of the house, and found quite a crowd of little animals and birds
waiting outside. The poor little Lizard, Bill, was in the middle, being held up
by two guinea-pigs, who were giving it something out of a bottle. They all made
a rush at <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alic</span> the moment <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> appeared; but <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> ran off as hard as <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> could,
and soon found <span title='original: herself' style='color: purple;'>themselves</span> safe in a thick wood.
</p>
<p>
“The first thing I’ve got to do,” said <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alic</span> to <span title='original: herself' style='color: purple;'>themselves</span>, as
<span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> wandered about in the wood, “is to grow to my right size again; and
the second thing is to find my way into that lovely garden. I think that will
be the best plan.”
</p>
<p>
It sounded an excellent plan, no doubt, and very neatly and simply arranged;
the only difficulty was, that <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> had not the smallest idea how to set about
it; and while <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> <span title='original: was' style='color: purple;'>were</span> peering about anxiously among the trees, a little sharp
bark just over <span title='original: her' style='color: purple;'>their</span> head made <span title='original: her' style='color: purple;'>them</span> look up in a great hurry.
</p>
<p>
An enormous puppy was looking down at <span title='original: her' style='color: purple;'>them</span> with large round eyes, and feebly
stretching out one paw, trying to touch <span title='original: her' style='color: purple;'>them</span>. “Poor little thing!”
said <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alic</span>, in a coaxing tone, and <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> tried hard to whistle to it; but <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> <span title='original: was' style='color: purple;'>were</span>
terribly frightened all the time at the thought that it might be hungry, in
which case it would be very likely to eat <span title='original: her' style='color: purple;'>them</span> up in spite of all <span title='original: her' style='color: purple;'>their</span> coaxing.
</p>
<p>
Hardly knowing what <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> did, <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> picked up a little bit of stick, and held it
out to the puppy; whereupon the puppy jumped into the air off all its feet at
once, with a yelp of delight, and rushed at the stick, and made believe to
worry it; then <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alic</span> dodged behind a great thistle, to keep <span title='original: herself' style='color: purple;'>themselves</span> from being
run over; and the moment <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> appeared on the other side, the puppy made another
rush at the stick, and tumbled head over heels in its hurry to get hold of it;
then <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alic</span>, thinking it was very like having a game of play with a cart-horse,
and expecting every moment to be trampled under its feet, ran round the thistle
again; then the puppy began a series of short charges at the stick, running a
very little way forwards each time and a long way back, and barking hoarsely
all the while, till at last it sat down a good way off, panting, with its
tongue hanging out of its mouth, and its great eyes half shut.
</p>
<p>
This seemed to <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alic</span> a good opportunity for making <span title='original: her' style='color: purple;'>their</span> escape; so <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> set off
at once, and ran till <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> <span title='original: was' style='color: purple;'>were</span> quite tired and out of breath, and till the
puppy’s bark sounded quite faint in the distance.
</p>
<p>
“And yet what a dear little puppy it was!” said <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alic</span>, as <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> leant
against a buttercup to rest <span title='original: herself' style='color: purple;'>themselves</span>, and fanned <span title='original: herself' style='color: purple;'>themselves</span> with one of the leaves:
“I should have liked teaching it tricks very much, if—if I’d
only been the right size to do it! Oh dear! I’d nearly forgotten that
I’ve got to grow up again! Let me see—how <i>is</i> it to be
managed? I suppose I ought to eat or drink something or other; but the great
question is, what?”
</p>
<p>
The great question certainly was, what? <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alic</span> looked all round <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> at the
flowers and the blades of grass, but she did not see anything that looked like
the right thing to eat or drink under the circumstances. There was a large
mushroom growing near <span title='original: her' style='color: purple;'>them</span>, about the same height as <span title='original: herself' style='color: purple;'>themselves</span>; and when <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> had
looked under it, and on both sides of it, and behind it, it occurred to <span title='original: her' style='color: purple;'>them</span>
that <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> might as well look and see what was on the top of it.
</p>
<p>
<span title='original: She' style='color: purple;'>They</span> stretched <span title='original: herself' style='color: purple;'>themselves</span> up on tiptoe, and peeped over the edge of the mushroom,
and <span title='original: her' style='color: purple;'>their</span> eyes immediately met those of a large blue caterpillar, that was
sitting on the top with its arms folded, quietly smoking a long hookah, and
taking not the smallest notice of <span title='original: her' style='color: purple;'>them</span> or of anything else.
</p>
</div><p><!--end chapter-->
</p></body></html>
