<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8"/><title>The Project Gutenberg eBook of <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alix</span>’s Adventures in Wonderland, by Lewis Carroll</title>
<link href="6269378934971248692_cover.jpg" rel="icon" type="image/x-cover" id="id-8875896598953579899"/>

<link href="0.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="1.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="pgepub.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta name="generator" content="Ebookmaker 0.12.21 by Project Gutenberg"/>
</head>
<body class="x-ebookmaker x-ebookmaker-3"><div class="chapter" id="pgepubid00015">
<h2><a id="chap12"/>CHAPTER XII.<br/>
<span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alix</span>’s Evidence</h2>
<p>
“Here!” cried <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alix</span>, quite forgetting in the flurry of the moment
how large <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> had grown in the last few minutes, and <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> jumped up in such a
hurry that <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> tipped over the jury-box with the edge of <span title='original: her' style='color: purple;'>their</span> skirt, upsetting
all the jurymen on to the heads of the crowd below, and there they lay
sprawling about, reminding <span title='original: her' style='color: purple;'>them</span> very much of a globe of goldfish <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> had
accidentally upset the week before.
</p>
<p>
“Oh, I <i>beg</i> your pardon!” <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> exclaimed in a tone of great
dismay, and began picking them up again as quickly as <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> could, for the
accident of the goldfish kept running in <span title='original: her' style='color: purple;'>their</span> head, and <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> had a vague sort of
idea that they must be collected at once and put back into the jury-box, or
they would die.
</p>
<p>
“The trial cannot proceed,” said the King in a very grave voice,
“until all the jurymen are back in their proper
places—<i>all</i>,” he repeated with great emphasis, looking hard
at <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alix</span> as he said so.
</p>
<p>
<span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alix</span> looked at the jury-box, and saw that, in <span title='original: her' style='color: purple;'>their</span> haste, <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> had put the
Lizard in head downwards, and the poor little thing was waving its tail about
in a melancholy way, being quite unable to move. <span title='original: She' style='color: purple;'>They</span> soon got it out again, and
put it right; “not that it signifies much,” <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> said to <span title='original: herself' style='color: purple;'>themselves</span>;
“I should think it would be <i>quite</i> as much use in the trial one way
up as the other.”
</p>
<p>
As soon as the jury had a little recovered from the shock of being upset, and
their slates and pencils had been found and handed back to them, they set to
work very diligently to write out a history of the accident, all except the
Lizard, who seemed too much overcome to do anything but sit with its mouth
open, gazing up into the roof of the court.
</p>
<p>
“What do you know about this business?” the King said to <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alix</span>.
</p>
<p>
“Nothing,” said <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alix</span>.
</p>
<p>
“Nothing <i>whatever?</i>” persisted the King.
</p>
<p>
“Nothing whatever,” said <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alix</span>.
</p>
<p>
“That’s very important,” the King said, turning to the jury.
They were just beginning to write this down on <span title='original: their' style='color: purple;'>their</span> slates, when the White
Rabbit interrupted: “<i>Un</i>important, your Majesty means, of
course,” he said in a very respectful tone, but frowning and making faces
at him as he spoke.
</p>
<p>
“<i>Un</i>important, of course, I meant,” the King hastily said,
and went on to himself in an undertone,
</p>
<p>
“important—unimportant—unimportant—important—”
as if he were trying which word sounded best.
</p>
<p>
Some of the jury wrote it down “important,” and some
“unimportant.” <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alix</span> could see this, as <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> <span title='original: was' style='color: purple;'>were</span> near enough to look
over their slates; “but it doesn’t matter a bit,” <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> thought
to <span title='original: herself' style='color: purple;'>themselves</span>.
</p>
<p>
At this moment the King, who had been for some time busily writing in his
note-book, cackled out “Silence!” and read out from his book,
“Rule Forty-two. <i>All persons more than a mile high to leave the
court</i>.”
</p>
<p>
Everybody looked at <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alix</span>.
</p>
<p>
“<i>I’m</i> not a mile high,” said <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alix</span>.
</p>
<p>
“You are,” said the King.
</p>
<p>
“Nearly two miles high,” added the Queen.
</p>
<p>
“Well, I shan’t go, at any rate,” said <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alix</span>: “besides,
that’s not a regular rule: you invented it just now.”
</p>
<p>
“It’s the oldest rule in the book,” said the King.
</p>
<p>
“Then it ought to be Number One,” said <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alix</span>.
</p>
<p>
The King turned pale, and shut his note-book hastily. “Consider your
verdict,” he said to the jury, in a low, trembling voice.
</p>
<p>
“There’s more evidence to come yet, please your Majesty,”
said the White Rabbit, jumping up in a great hurry; “this paper has just
been picked up.”
</p>
<p>
“What’s in it?” said the Queen.
</p>
<p>
“I haven’t opened it yet,” said the White Rabbit, “but
it seems to be a letter, written by the prisoner to—to somebody.”
</p>
<p>
“It must have been that,” said the King, “unless it was
written to nobody, which isn’t usual, you know.”
</p>
<p>
“Who is it directed to?” said one of the jurymen.
</p>
<p>
“It isn’t directed at all,” said the White Rabbit; “in
fact, there’s nothing written on the <i>outside</i>.” He unfolded
the paper as he spoke, and added “It isn’t a letter, after all:
it’s a set of verses.”
</p>
<p>
“Are they in the prisoner’s handwriting?” asked another of
the jurymen.
</p>
<p>
“No, they’re not,” said the White Rabbit, “and
that’s the queerest thing about it.” (The jury all looked puzzled.)
</p>
<p>
“He must have imitated somebody else’s hand,” said the King.
(The jury all brightened up again.)
</p>
<p>
“Please your Majesty,” said the Knave, “I didn’t write
it, and they can’t prove I did: there’s no name signed at the
end.”
</p>
<p>
“If you didn’t sign it,” said the King, “that only
makes the matter worse. You <i>must</i> have meant some mischief, or else
you’d have signed your name like an honest man.”
</p>
<p>
There was a general clapping of hands at this: it was the first really clever
thing the King had said that day.
</p>
<p>
“That <i>proves</i> his guilt,” said the Queen.
</p>
<p>
“It proves nothing of the sort!” said <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alix</span>. “Why, you
don’t even know what they’re about!”
</p>
<p>
“Read them,” said the King.
</p>
<p>
The White Rabbit put on his spectacles. “Where shall I begin, please your
Majesty?” he asked.
</p>
<p>
“Begin at the beginning,” the King said gravely, “and go on
till you come to the end: then stop.”
</p>
<p>
These were the verses the White Rabbit read:—
</p>
<p class="poem">
“They told me you had been to her,<br/>
    And mentioned me to him:<br/>
She gave me a good character,<br/>
    But said I could not swim.<br/>
<br/>
He sent them word I had not gone<br/>
    (We know it to be true):<br/>
If she should push the matter on,<br/>
    What would become of you?<br/>
<br/>
I gave her one, they gave him two,<br/>
    You gave us three or more;<br/>
They all returned from him to you,<br/>
    Though they were mine before.<br/>
<br/>
If I or she should chance to be<br/>
    Involved in this affair,<br/>
He trusts to you to set them free,<br/>
    Exactly as we were.<br/>
<br/>
My notion was that you had been<br/>
    (Before she had this fit)<br/>
An obstacle that came between<br/>
    Him, and ourselves, and it.<br/>
<br/>
Don’t let him know she liked them best,<br/>
    For this must ever be<br/>
A secret, kept from all the rest,<br/>
    Between yourself and me.”
</p>
<p>
“That’s the most important piece of evidence we’ve heard
yet,” said the King, rubbing his hands; “so now let the
jury—”
</p>
<p>
“If any one of them can explain it,” said <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alix</span>, (<span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> had grown so
large in the last few minutes that <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> <span title='original: was' style='color: purple;'>were</span>n’t a bit afraid of
interrupting him,) “I’ll give him sixpence. <i>I</i> don’t
believe there’s an atom of meaning in it.”
</p>
<p>
The jury all wrote down on their slates, “<i><span title='original: She' style='color: purple;'>They</span></i> doesn’t
believe there’s an atom of meaning in it,” but none of them
attempted to explain the paper.
</p>
<p>
“If there’s no meaning in it,” said the King, “that
saves a world of trouble, you know, as we needn’t try to find any. And
yet I don’t know,” he went on, spreading out the verses on his
knee, and looking at them with one eye; “I seem to see some meaning in
them, after all. “—<i>said I could not swim</i>—” you
can’t swim, can you?” he added, turning to the Knave.
</p>
<p>
The Knave shook his head sadly. “Do I look like it?” he said.
(Which he certainly did <i>not</i>, being made entirely of cardboard.)
</p>
<p>
“All right, so far,” said the King, and he went on muttering over
the verses to himself: “‘<i>We know it to be true</i>—’
that’s the jury, of course—‘<i>I gave her one, they gave him
two</i>—’ why, that must be what he did with the tarts, you
know—”
</p>
<p>
“But, it goes on ‘<i>they all returned from him to
you</i>,’” said <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alix</span>.
</p>
<p>
“Why, there they are!” said the King triumphantly, pointing to the
tarts on the table. “Nothing can be clearer than <i>that</i>. Then
again—‘<i>before she had this fit</i>—’ you never had
fits, my dear, I think?” he said to the Queen.
</p>
<p>
“Never!” said the Queen furiously, throwing an inkstand at the
Lizard as she spoke. (The unfortunate little Bill had left off writing on his
slate with one finger, as he found it made no mark; but he now hastily began
again, using the ink, that was trickling down his face, as long as it lasted.)
</p>
<p>
“Then the words don’t <i>fit</i> you,” said the King, looking
round the court with a smile. There was a dead silence.
</p>
<p>
“It’s a pun!” the King added in an offended tone, and
everybody laughed, “Let the jury consider their verdict,” the King
said, for about the twentieth time that day.
</p>
<p>
“No, no!” said the Queen. “Sentence first—verdict
afterwards.”
</p>
<p>
“Stuff and nonsense!” said <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alix</span> loudly. “The idea of having
the sentence first!”
</p>
<p>
“Hold your tongue!” said the Queen, turning purple.
</p>
<p>
“I won’t!” said <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alix</span>.
</p>
<p>
“Off with <span title='original: her' style='color: purple;'>their</span> head!” the Queen shouted at the top of her voice.
Nobody moved.
</p>
<p>
“Who cares for you?” said <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alix</span>, (<span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> had grown to <span title='original: her' style='color: purple;'>their</span> full size by
this time.) “You’re nothing but a pack of cards!”
</p>
<p>
At this the whole pack rose up into the air, and came flying down upon <span title='original: her' style='color: purple;'>them</span>: <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span>
gave a little scream, half of fright and half of anger, and tried to beat them
off, and found <span title='original: herself' style='color: purple;'>themselves</span> lying on the bank, with <span title='original: her' style='color: purple;'>their</span> head in the lap of <span title='original: her' style='color: purple;'>their</span>
sister, who was gently brushing away some dead leaves that had fluttered down
from the trees upon <span title='original: her' style='color: purple;'>their</span> face.
</p>
<p>
“Wake up, <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alix</span> dear!” said <span title='original: her' style='color: purple;'>their</span> sister; “Why, what a long
sleep you’ve had!”
</p>
<p>
“Oh, I’ve had such a curious dream!” said <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alix</span>, and <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> told
<span title='original: her' style='color: purple;'>their</span> sister, as well as <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> could remember them, all these strange Adventures of
<span title='original: hers' style='color: purple;'>theirs</span> that you have just been reading about; and when <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> had finished, <span title='original: her' style='color: purple;'>their</span>
sister kissed <span title='original: her' style='color: purple;'>them</span>, and said, “It <i>was</i> a curious dream, dear,
certainly: but now run in to your tea; it’s getting late.” So <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alix</span>
got up and ran off, thinking while <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> ran, as well <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> might, what a wonderful
dream it had been.
</p>
<hr/>
<p>
But <span title='original: her' style='color: purple;'>their</span> sister sat still just as <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> left her, leaning her head on her hand,
watching the setting sun, and thinking of little <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alix</span> and all <span title='original: her' style='color: purple;'>their</span> wonderful
Adventures, till she too began dreaming after a fashion, and this was her
dream:—
</p>
<p>
First, she dreamed of little <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alix</span> <span title='original: herself' style='color: purple;'>themselves</span>, and once again the tiny hands were
clasped upon her knee, and the bright eager eyes were looking up into
hers—she could hear the very tones of <span title='original: her' style='color: purple;'>their</span> voice, and see that queer
little toss of <span title='original: her' style='color: purple;'>their</span> head to keep back the wandering hair that <i>would</i>
always get into <span title='original: her' style='color: purple;'>their</span> eyes—and still as she listened, or seemed to listen,
the whole place around her became alive with the strange creatures of her
little <span title='original: sister' style='color: purple;'>sibling</span>’s dream.
</p>
<p>
The long grass rustled at her feet as the White Rabbit hurried by—the
frightened Mouse splashed his way through the neighbouring pool—she could
hear the rattle of the teacups as the March Hare and his friends shared their
never-ending meal, and the shrill voice of the Queen ordering off her
unfortunate guests to execution—once more the pig-baby was sneezing on
the Duchess’s knee, while plates and dishes crashed around it—once
more the shriek of the Gryphon, the squeaking of the Lizard’s
slate-pencil, and the choking of the suppressed guinea-pigs, filled the air,
mixed up with the distant sobs of the miserable Mock Turtle.
</p>
<p>
So she sat on, with closed eyes, and half believed herself in Wonderland,
though she knew she had but to open them again, and all would change to dull
reality—the grass would be only rustling in the wind, and the pool
rippling to the waving of the reeds—the rattling teacups would change to
tinkling sheep-bells, and the Queen’s shrill cries to the voice of the
shepherd boy—and the sneeze of the baby, the shriek of the Gryphon, and
all the other queer noises, would change (she knew) to the confused clamour of
the busy farm-yard—while the lowing of the cattle in the distance would
take the place of the Mock Turtle’s heavy sobs.
</p>
<p>
Lastly, she pictured to herself how this same little <span title='original: sister' style='color: purple;'>sibling</span> of hers would, in
  the after-time, be <span title='original: herself' style='color: purple;'>themself</span> a grown <span title='original: woman' style='color: purple;'>person</span>; and how <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> would keep, through all
<span title='original: her' style='color: purple;'>their</span> riper years, the simple and loving heart of <span title='original: her' style='color: purple;'>their</span> childhood: and how <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span>
would gather about <span title='original: her' style='color: purple;'>them</span> other little children, and make <i>their</i> eyes bright
and eager with many a strange tale, perhaps even with the dream of Wonderland
of long ago: and how <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> would feel with all their simple sorrows, and find a
pleasure in all their simple joys, remembering <span title='original: her' style='color: purple;'>their</span> own child-life, and the
happy summer days.
</p>
<h5>THE END </h5>
</div><p><!--end chapter-->
</p><div style="display:block;margin-top:4em"/></body></html>
