<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8"/><title>The Project Gutenberg eBook of <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alex</span>’s Adventures in Wonderland, by Lewis Carroll</title>
<link href="6269378934971248692_cover.jpg" rel="icon" type="image/x-cover" id="id-8875896598953579899"/>

<link href="0.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="1.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="pgepub.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta name="generator" content="Ebookmaker 0.12.21 by Project Gutenberg"/>
</head>
<body class="x-ebookmaker x-ebookmaker-3"><div class="chapter" id="pgepubid00008">
<h2><a id="chap05"/>CHAPTER V.<br/>
Advice from a Caterpillar</h2>
<p>
The Caterpillar and <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alex</span> looked at each other for some time in silence: at
last the Caterpillar took the hookah out of its mouth, and addressed <span title='original: her' style='color: purple;'>them</span> in a
languid, sleepy voice.
</p>
<p>
“Who are <i>you?</i>” said the Caterpillar.
</p>
<p>
This was not an encouraging opening for a conversation. <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alex</span> replied, rather
shyly, “I—I hardly know, sir, just at present—at least I know
who I <i>was</i> when I got up this morning, but I think I must have been
changed several times since then.”
</p>
<p>
“What do you mean by that?” said the Caterpillar sternly.
“Explain yourself!”
</p>
<p>
“I can’t explain <i>myself</i>, I’m afraid, sir,” said
<span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alex</span>, “because I’m not myself, you see.”
</p>
<p>
“I don’t see,” said the Caterpillar.
</p>
<p>
“I’m afraid I can’t put it more clearly,” <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alex</span> replied
very politely, “for I can’t understand it myself to begin with; and
being so many different sizes in a day is very confusing.”
</p>
<p>
“It isn’t,” said the Caterpillar.
</p>
<p>
“Well, perhaps you haven’t found it so yet,” said <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alex</span>;
“but when you have to turn into a chrysalis—you will some day, you
know—and then after that into a butterfly, I should think you’ll
feel it a little queer, won’t you?”
</p>
<p>
“Not a bit,” said the Caterpillar.
</p>
<p>
“Well, perhaps your feelings may be different,” said <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alex</span>;
“all I know is, it would feel very queer to <i>me</i>.”
</p>
<p>
“You!” said the Caterpillar contemptuously. “Who are
<i>you?</i>”
</p>
<p>
Which brought them back again to the beginning of the conversation. <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alex</span> felt
a little irritated at the Caterpillar’s making such <i>very</i> short
remarks, and <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> drew <span title='original: herself' style='color: purple;'>themselves</span> up and said, very gravely, “I think, you
ought to tell me who <i>you</i> are, first.”
</p>
<p>
“Why?” said the Caterpillar.
</p>
<p>
Here was another puzzling question; and as <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alex</span> could not think of any good
reason, and as the Caterpillar seemed to be in a <i>very</i> unpleasant state
of mind, <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> turned away.
</p>
<p>
“Come back!” the Caterpillar called after <span title='original: her' style='color: purple;'>them</span>. “I’ve
something important to say!”
</p>
<p>
This sounded promising, certainly: <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alex</span> turned and came back again.
</p>
<p>
“Keep your temper,” said the Caterpillar.
</p>
<p>
“Is that all?” said <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alex</span>, swallowing down <span title='original: her' style='color: purple;'>their</span> anger as well as <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span>
could.
</p>
<p>
“No,” said the Caterpillar.
</p>
<p>
<span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alex</span> thought <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> might as well wait, as <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> had nothing else to do, and
perhaps after all it might tell <span title='original: her' style='color: purple;'>them</span> something worth hearing. For some minutes
it puffed away without speaking, but at last it unfolded its arms, took the
hookah out of its mouth again, and said, “So you think you’re
changed, do you?”
</p>
<p>
“I’m afraid I am, sir,” said <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alex</span>; “I can’t
remember things as I used—and I don’t keep the same size for ten
minutes together!”
</p>
<p>
“Can’t remember <i>what</i> things?” said the Caterpillar.
</p>
<p>
“Well, I’ve tried to say “How doth the little busy
bee,” but it all came different!” <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alex</span> replied in a very
melancholy voice.
</p>
<p>
“Repeat, “<i>You are old, Father William</i>,’” said
the Caterpillar.
</p>
<p>
<span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alex</span> folded <span title='original: her' style='color: purple;'>their</span> hands, and began:—
</p>
<p class="poem">
“You are old, Father William,” the young man said,<br/>
    “And your hair has become very white;<br/>
And yet you incessantly stand on your head—<br/>
    Do you think, at your age, it is right?”<br/>
<br/>
“In my youth,” Father William replied to his son,<br/>
    “I feared it might injure the brain;<br/>
But, now that I’m perfectly sure I have none,<br/>
    Why, I do it again and again.”<br/>
<br/>
“You are old,” said the youth, “as I mentioned before,<br/>
    And have grown most uncommonly fat;<br/>
Yet you turned a back-somersault in at the door—<br/>
    Pray, what is the reason of that?”<br/>
<br/>
“In my youth,” said the sage, as he shook his grey locks,<br/>
    “I kept all my limbs very supple<br/>
By the use of this ointment—one shilling the box—<br/>
    Allow me to sell you a couple?”<br/>
<br/>
“You are old,” said the youth, “and your jaws are too weak<br/>
    For anything tougher than suet;<br/>
Yet you finished the goose, with the bones and the beak—<br/>
    Pray, how did you manage to do it?”<br/>
<br/>
“In my youth,” said his father, “I took to the law,<br/>
    And argued each case with my wife;<br/>
And the muscular strength, which it gave to my jaw,<br/>
    Has lasted the rest of my life.”<br/>
<br/>
“You are old,” said the youth, “one would hardly suppose<br/>
    That your eye was as steady as ever;<br/>
Yet you balanced an eel on the end of your nose—<br/>
    What made you so awfully clever?”<br/>
<br/>
“I have answered three questions, and that is enough,”<br/>
    Said his father; “don’t give yourself airs!<br/>
Do you think I can listen all day to such stuff?<br/>
    Be off, or I’ll kick you down stairs!”
</p>
<p>
“That is not said right,” said the Caterpillar.
</p>
<p>
“Not <i>quite</i> right, I’m afraid,” said <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alex</span>, timidly;
“some of the words have got altered.”
</p>
<p>
“It is wrong from beginning to end,” said the Caterpillar
decidedly, and there was silence for some minutes.
</p>
<p>
The Caterpillar was the first to speak.
</p>
<p>
“What size do you want to be?” it asked.
</p>
<p>
“Oh, I’m not particular as to size,” <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alex</span> hastily replied;
“only one doesn’t like changing so often, you know.”
</p>
<p>
“I <i>don’t</i> know,” said the Caterpillar.
</p>
<p>
<span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alex</span> said nothing: <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> had never been so much contradicted in <span title='original: her' style='color: purple;'>their</span> life before,
and <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> felt that <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> <span title='original: was' style='color: purple;'>were</span> losing <span title='original: her' style='color: purple;'>their</span> temper.
</p>
<p>
“Are you content now?” said the Caterpillar.
</p>
<p>
“Well, I should like to be a <i>little</i> larger, sir, if you
wouldn’t mind,” said <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alex</span>: “three inches is such a wretched
height to be.”
</p>
<p>
“It is a very good height indeed!” said the Caterpillar angrily,
rearing itself upright as it spoke (it was exactly three inches high).
</p>
<p>
“But I’m not used to it!” pleaded poor <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alex</span> in a piteous
tone. And <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> thought of <span title='original: herself' style='color: purple;'>themselves</span>, “I wish the creatures wouldn’t be
so easily offended!”
</p>
<p>
“You’ll get used to it in time,” said the Caterpillar; and it
put the hookah into its mouth and began smoking again.
</p>
<p>
This time <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alex</span> waited patiently until it chose to speak again. In a minute or
two the Caterpillar took the hookah out of its mouth and yawned once or twice,
and shook itself. Then it got down off the mushroom, and crawled away in the
grass, merely remarking as it went, “One side will make you grow taller,
and the other side will make you grow shorter.”
</p>
<p>
“One side of <i>what?</i> The other side of <i>what?</i>” thought
<span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alex</span> to <span title='original: herself' style='color: purple;'>themselves</span>.
</p>
<p>
“Of the mushroom,” said the Caterpillar, just as if <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> had asked
it aloud; and in another moment it was out of sight.
</p>
<p>
<span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alex</span> remained looking thoughtfully at the mushroom for a minute, trying to
make out which were the two sides of it; and as it was perfectly round, <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span>
found this a very difficult question. However, at last <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> stretched <span title='original: her' style='color: purple;'>their</span> arms
round it as far as they would go, and broke off a bit of the edge with each
hand.
</p>
<p>
“And now which is which?” <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> said to <span title='original: herself' style='color: purple;'>themselves</span>, and nibbled a little
of the right-hand bit to try the effect: the next moment <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> felt a violent
blow underneath <span title='original: her' style='color: purple;'>their</span> chin: it had struck <span title='original: her' style='color: purple;'>their</span> foot!
</p>
<p>
<span title='original: She' style='color: purple;'>They</span> <span title='original: was' style='color: purple;'>were</span> a good deal frightened by this very sudden change, but <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> felt that
there was no time to be lost, as <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> <span title='original: was' style='color: purple;'>were</span> shrinking rapidly; so <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> set to work
at once to eat some of the other bit. <span title='original: Her' style='color: purple;'>Their</span> chin was pressed so closely against
<span title='original: her' style='color: purple;'>their</span> foot, that there was hardly room to open <span title='original: her' style='color: purple;'>their</span> mouth; but <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> did it at last,
and managed to swallow a morsel of the lefthand bit.
</p>
<p class="asterism">
*      *      *      *      *      *      *<br/>
<br/>
    *      *      *      *      *      *<br/>
<br/>
*      *      *      *      *      *      *<br/>
</p>
<p>
“Come, my head’s free at last!” said <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alex</span> in a tone of
delight, which changed into alarm in another moment, when <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> found that <span title='original: her' style='color: purple;'>their</span>
shoulders were nowhere to be found: all <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> could see, when <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> looked down,
was an immense length of neck, which seemed to rise like a stalk out of a sea
of green leaves that lay far below <span title='original: her' style='color: purple;'>them</span>.
</p>
<p>
“What <i>can</i> all that green stuff be?” said <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alex</span>. “And
where <i>have</i> my shoulders got to? And oh, my poor hands, how is it I
can’t see you?” <span title='original: She' style='color: purple;'>They</span> <span title='original: was' style='color: purple;'>were</span> moving them about as <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> spoke, but no
result seemed to follow, except a little shaking among the distant green
leaves.
</p>
<p>
As there seemed to be no chance of getting <span title='original: her' style='color: purple;'>their</span> hands up to <span title='original: her' style='color: purple;'>their</span> head, <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> tried
to get <span title='original: her' style='color: purple;'>their</span> head down to them, and was delighted to find that <span title='original: her' style='color: purple;'>their</span> neck would
bend about easily in any direction, like a serpent. <span title='original: She' style='color: purple;'>They</span> had just succeeded in
curving it down into a graceful zigzag, and was going to dive in among the
leaves, which <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> found to be nothing but the tops of the trees under which <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span>
had been wandering, when a sharp hiss made <span title='original: her' style='color: purple;'>them</span> draw back in a hurry: a large
pigeon had flown into <span title='original: her' style='color: purple;'>their</span> face, and was beating <span title='original: her' style='color: purple;'>them</span> violently with its wings.
</p>
<p>
“Serpent!” screamed the Pigeon.
</p>
<p>
“I’m <i>not</i> a serpent!” said <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alex</span> indignantly.
“Let me alone!”
</p>
<p>
“Serpent, I say again!” repeated the Pigeon, but in a more subdued
tone, and added with a kind of sob, “I’ve tried every way, and
nothing seems to suit them!”
</p>
<p>
“I haven’t the least idea what you’re talking about,”
said <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alex</span>.
</p>
<p>
“I’ve tried the roots of trees, and I’ve tried banks, and
I’ve tried hedges,” the Pigeon went on, without attending to <span title='original: her' style='color: purple;'>them</span>;
“but those serpents! There’s no pleasing them!”
</p>
<p>
<span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alex</span> was more and more puzzled, but <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> thought there was no use in saying
anything more till the Pigeon had finished.
</p>
<p>
“As if it wasn’t trouble enough hatching the eggs,” said the
Pigeon; “but I must be on the look-out for serpents night and day! Why, I
haven’t had a wink of sleep these three weeks!”
</p>
<p>
“I’m very sorry you’ve been annoyed,” said <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alex</span>, who
was beginning to see its meaning.
</p>
<p>
“And just as I’d taken the highest tree in the wood,”
continued the Pigeon, raising its voice to a shriek, “and just as I was
thinking I should be free of them at last, they must needs come wriggling down
from the sky! Ugh, Serpent!”
</p>
<p>
“But I’m <i>not</i> a serpent, I tell you!” said <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alex</span>.
“I’m a—I’m a—”
</p>
<p>
“Well! <i>What</i> are you?” said the Pigeon. “I can see
you’re trying to invent something!”
</p>
<p>
“I—I’m a little girl,” said <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alex</span>, rather doubtfully,
as <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> remembered the number of changes <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> had gone through that day.
</p>
<p>
“A likely story indeed!” said the Pigeon in a tone of the deepest
contempt. “I’ve seen a good many little girls in my time, but never
<i>one</i> with such a neck as that! No, no! You’re a serpent; and
there’s no use denying it. I suppose you’ll be telling me next that
you never tasted an egg!”
</p>
<p>
“I <i>have</i> tasted eggs, certainly,” said <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alex</span>, who was a very
truthful child; “but little girls eat eggs quite as much as serpents do,
you know.”
</p>
<p>
“I don’t believe it,” said the Pigeon; “but if they do,
why then they’re a kind of serpent, that’s all I can say.”
</p>
<p>
This was such a new idea to <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alex</span>, that <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> <span title='original: was' style='color: purple;'>were</span> quite silent for a minute or
two, which gave the Pigeon the opportunity of adding, “You’re
looking for eggs, I know <i>that</i> well enough; and what does it matter to me
whether you’re a little girl or a serpent?”
</p>
<p>
“It matters a good deal to <i>me</i>,” said <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alex</span> hastily;
“but I’m not looking for eggs, as it happens; and if I was, I
shouldn’t want <i>yours</i>: I don’t like them raw.”
</p>
<p>
“Well, be off, then!” said the Pigeon in a sulky tone, as it
settled down again into its nest. <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alex</span> crouched down among the trees as well
as <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> could, for <span title='original: her' style='color: purple;'>their</span> neck kept getting entangled among the branches, and every
now and then <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> had to stop and untwist it. After a while <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> remembered that
<span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> still held the pieces of mushroom in <span title='original: her' style='color: purple;'>their</span> hands, and <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> set to work very
carefully, nibbling first at one and then at the other, and growing sometimes
taller and sometimes shorter, until <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> had succeeded in bringing <span title='original: herself' style='color: purple;'>themselves</span> down
to <span title='original: her' style='color: purple;'>their</span> usual height.
</p>
<p>
It was so long since <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> had been anything near the right size, that it felt
quite strange at first; but <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> got used to it in a few minutes, and began
talking to <span title='original: herself' style='color: purple;'>themselves</span>, as usual. “Come, there’s half my plan done now!
How puzzling all these changes are! I’m never sure what I’m going
to be, from one minute to another! However, I’ve got back to my right
size: the next thing is, to get into that beautiful garden—how <i>is</i>
that to be done, I wonder?” As <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> said this, <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> came suddenly upon an
open place, with a little house in it about four feet high. “Whoever
lives there,” thought <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alex</span>, “it’ll never do to come upon
them <i>this</i> size: why, I should frighten them out of their wits!” So
<span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> began nibbling at the righthand bit again, and did not venture to go near
the house till <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> had brought <span title='original: herself' style='color: purple;'>themselves</span> down to nine inches high.
</p>
</div><p><!--end chapter-->
</p></body></html>
