<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8"/><title>The Project Gutenberg eBook of <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alex</span>’s Adventures in Wonderland, by Lewis Carroll</title>
<link href="6269378934971248692_cover.jpg" rel="icon" type="image/x-cover" id="id-8875896598953579899"/>

<link href="0.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="1.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="pgepub.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta name="generator" content="Ebookmaker 0.12.21 by Project Gutenberg"/>
</head>
<body class="x-ebookmaker x-ebookmaker-3"><div class="chapter" id="pgepubid00004">
<h2><a id="chap01"/>CHAPTER I.<br/>
Down the Rabbit-Hole</h2>
<p>
<span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alex</span> was beginning to get very tired of sitting by <span title='original: her' style='color: purple;'>their</span> sister on the bank, and
of having nothing to do: once or twice <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> had peeped into the book <span title='original: her' style='color: purple;'>their</span> sister
was reading, but it had no pictures or conversations in it, “and what is
the use of a book,” thought <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alex</span> “without pictures or
conversations?”
</p>
<p>
So <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> <span title='original: was' style='color: purple;'>were</span> considering in <span title='original: her' style='color: purple;'>their</span> own mind (as well as <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> could, for the hot day
made <span title='original: her' style='color: purple;'>them</span> feel very sleepy and stupid), whether the pleasure of making a
daisy-chain would be worth the trouble of getting up and picking the daisies,
when suddenly a White Rabbit with pink eyes ran close by <span title='original: her' style='color: purple;'>them</span>.
</p>
<p>
There was nothing so <i>very</i> remarkable in that; nor did <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alex</span> think it so
<i>very</i> much out of the way to hear the Rabbit say to itself, “Oh
dear! Oh dear! I shall be late!” (when <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> thought it over afterwards, it
occurred to <span title='original: her' style='color: purple;'>them</span> that <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> ought to have wondered at this, but at the time it all
seemed quite natural); but when the Rabbit actually <i>took a watch out of its
waistcoat-pocket</i>, and looked at it, and then hurried on, <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alex</span> started to
<span title='original: her' style='color: purple;'>their</span> feet, for it flashed across <span title='original: her' style='color: purple;'>their</span> mind that <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> had never before seen a
rabbit with either a waistcoat-pocket, or a watch to take out of it, and
burning with curiosity, <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> ran across the field after it, and fortunately was
just in time to see it pop down a large rabbit-hole under the hedge.
</p>
<p>
In another moment down went <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alex</span> after it, never once considering how in the
world <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> <span title='original: was' style='color: purple;'>were</span> to get out again.
</p>
<p>
The rabbit-hole went straight on like a tunnel for some way, and then dipped
suddenly down, so suddenly that <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alex</span> had not a moment to think about stopping
<span title='original: herself' style='color: purple;'>themselves</span> before <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> found <span title='original: herself' style='color: purple;'>themselves</span> falling down a very deep well.
</p>
<p>
Either the well was very deep, or <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> fell very slowly, for <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> had plenty of
time as <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> went down to look about <span title='original: her' style='color: purple;'>them</span> and to wonder what was going to happen
next. First, <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> tried to look down and make out what <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> <span title='original: was' style='color: purple;'>were</span> coming to, but it
was too dark to see anything; then <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> looked at the sides of the well, and
noticed that they were filled with cupboards and book-shelves; here and there
<span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> saw maps and pictures hung upon pegs. <span title='original: She' style='color: purple;'>They</span> took down a jar from one of the
shelves as <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> passed; it was labelled “ORANGE MARMALADE”, but to
<span title='original: her' style='color: purple;'>their</span> great disappointment it was empty: <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> did not like to drop the jar for
fear of killing somebody underneath, so managed to put it into one of the
cupboards as <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> fell past it.
</p>
<p>
“Well!” thought <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alex</span> to <span title='original: herself' style='color: purple;'>themselves</span>, “after such a fall as this,
I shall think nothing of tumbling down stairs! How brave they’ll all
think me at home! Why, I wouldn’t say anything about it, even if I fell
off the top of the house!” (Which was very likely true.)
</p>
<p>
Down, down, down. Would the fall <i>never</i> come to an end? “I wonder
how many miles I’ve fallen by this time?” <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> said aloud. “I
must be getting somewhere near the centre of the earth. Let me see: that would
be four thousand miles down, I think—” (for, you see, <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alex</span> had
learnt several things of this sort in <span title='original: her' style='color: purple;'>their</span> lessons in the schoolroom, and though
this was not a <i>very</i> good opportunity for showing off <span title='original: her' style='color: purple;'>their</span> knowledge, as
there was no one to listen to <span title='original: her' style='color: purple;'>them</span>, still it was good practice to say it over)
“—yes, that’s about the right distance—but then I
wonder what Latitude or Longitude I’ve got to?” (<span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alex</span> had no idea
what Latitude was, or Longitude either, but thought they were nice grand words
to say.)
</p>
<p>
Presently <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> began again. “I wonder if I shall fall right <i>through</i>
the earth! How funny it’ll seem to come out among the people that walk
with their heads downward! The Antipathies, I think—” (<span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> <span title='original: was' style='color: purple;'>were</span>
rather glad there <i>was</i> no one listening, this time, as it didn’t
sound at all the right word) “—but I shall have to ask them what
the name of the country is, you know. Please, Ma’am, is this New Zealand
or Australia?” (and <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> tried to curtsey as <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> spoke—fancy
<i>curtseying</i> as you’re falling through the air! Do you think you
could manage it?) “And what an ignorant little <span title='original: girl' style='color: purple;'>person</span> <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span>’ll think me
for asking! No, it’ll never do to ask: perhaps I shall see it written up
somewhere.”
</p>
<p>
Down, down, down. There was nothing else to do, so <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alex</span> soon began talking
again. “Dinah’ll miss me very much to-night, I should think!”
(Dinah was the cat.) “I hope they’ll remember her saucer of milk at
tea-time. Dinah my dear! I wish you were down here with me! There are no mice
in the air, I’m afraid, but you might catch a bat, and that’s very
like a mouse, you know. But do cats eat bats, I wonder?” And here <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alex</span>
began to get rather sleepy, and went on saying to <span title='original: herself' style='color: purple;'>themselves</span>, in a dreamy sort of
way, “Do cats eat bats? Do cats eat bats?” and sometimes, “Do
bats eat cats?” for, you see, as <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> couldn’t answer either
question, it didn’t much matter which way <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> put it. <span title='original: She' style='color: purple;'>They</span> felt that <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span>
<span title='original: was' style='color: purple;'>were</span> dozing off, and had just begun to dream that <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> <span title='original: was' style='color: purple;'>were</span> walking hand in hand
with Dinah, and saying to her very earnestly, “Now, Dinah, tell me the
truth: did you ever eat a bat?” when suddenly, thump! thump! down <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span>
came upon a heap of sticks and dry leaves, and the fall was over.
</p>
<p>
<span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alex</span> was not a bit hurt, and <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> jumped up on to <span title='original: her' style='color: purple;'>their</span> feet in a moment: <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span>
looked up, but it was all dark overhead; before <span title='original: her' style='color: purple;'>them</span> was another long passage,
and the White Rabbit was still in sight, hurrying down it. There was not a
moment to be lost: away went <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alex</span> like the wind, and was just in time to hear
it say, as it turned a corner, “Oh my ears and whiskers, how late
it’s getting!” <span title='original: She' style='color: purple;'>They</span> <span title='original: was' style='color: purple;'>were</span> close behind it when <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> turned the corner,
but the Rabbit was no longer to be seen: <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> found <span title='original: herself' style='color: purple;'>themselves</span> in a long, low hall,
which was lit up by a row of lamps hanging from the roof.
</p>
<p>
There were doors all round the hall, but they were all locked; and when <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alex</span>
had been all the way down one side and up the other, trying every door, <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span>
walked sadly down the middle, wondering how <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> <span title='original: was' style='color: purple;'>were</span> ever to get out again.
</p>
<p>
Suddenly <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> came upon a little three-legged table, all made of solid glass;
there was nothing on it except a tiny golden key, and <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alex</span>’s first
thought was that it might belong to one of the doors of the hall; but, alas!
either the locks were too large, or the key was too small, but at any rate it
would not open any of them. However, on the second time round, <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> came upon a
low curtain <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> had not noticed before, and behind it was a little door about
fifteen inches high: <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> tried the little golden key in the lock, and to <span title='original: her' style='color: purple;'>their</span>
great delight it fitted!
</p>
<p>
<span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alex</span> opened the door and found that it led into a small passage, not much
larger than a rat-hole: <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> knelt down and looked along the passage into the
loveliest garden you ever saw. How <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> longed to get out of that dark hall, and
wander about among those beds of bright flowers and those cool fountains, but
<span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> could not even get <span title='original: her' style='color: purple;'>their</span> head through the doorway; “and even if my head
would go through,” thought poor <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alex</span>, “it would be of very little
use without my shoulders. Oh, how I wish I could shut up like a telescope! I
think I could, if I only knew how to begin.” For, you see, so many
out-of-the-way things had happened lately, that <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alex</span> had begun to think that
very few things indeed were really impossible.
</p>
<p>
There seemed to be no use in waiting by the little door, so <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> went back to
the table, half hoping <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> might find another key on it, or at any rate a book
of rules for shutting people up like telescopes: this time <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> found a little
bottle on it, (“which certainly was not here before,” said <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alex</span>,)
and round the neck of the bottle was a paper label, with the words “DRINK
ME,” beautifully printed on it in large letters.
</p>
<p>
It was all very well to say “Drink me,” but the wise little <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alex</span>
was not going to do <i>that</i> in a hurry. “No, I’ll look
first,” <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> said, “and see whether it’s marked
‘<i>poison</i>’ or not”; for <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> had read several nice little
histories about children who had got burnt, and eaten up by wild beasts and
other unpleasant things, all because they <i>would</i> not remember the simple
rules their friends had taught them: such as, that a red-hot poker will burn
you if you hold it too long; and that if you cut your finger <i>very</i> deeply
with a knife, it usually bleeds; and <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> had never forgotten that, if you drink
much from a bottle marked “poison,” it is almost certain to
disagree with you, sooner or later.
</p>
<p>
However, this bottle was <i>not</i> marked “poison,” so <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alex</span>
ventured to taste it, and finding it very nice, (it had, in fact, a sort of
mixed flavour of cherry-tart, custard, pine-apple, roast turkey, toffee, and
hot buttered toast,) <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> very soon finished it off.
</p>
<p class="asterism">
*      *      *      *      *      *      *<br/>
<br/>
    *      *      *      *      *      *<br/>
<br/>
*      *      *      *      *      *      *<br/>
</p>
<p>
“What a curious feeling!” said <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alex</span>; “I must be shutting up
like a telescope.”
</p>
<p>
And so it was indeed: <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> <span title='original: was' style='color: purple;'>were</span> now only ten inches high, and <span title='original: her' style='color: purple;'>their</span> face brightened
up at the thought that <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> <span title='original: was' style='color: purple;'>were</span> now the right size for going through the little
door into that lovely garden. First, however, <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> waited for a few minutes to
see if <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> <span title='original: was' style='color: purple;'>were</span> going to shrink any further: <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> felt a little nervous about
this; “for it might end, you know,” said <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alex</span> to <span title='original: herself' style='color: purple;'>themselves</span>,
“in my going out altogether, like a candle. I wonder what I should be
like then?” And <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> tried to fancy what the flame of a candle is like
after the candle is blown out, for <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> could not remember ever having seen such
a thing.
</p>
<p>
After a while, finding that nothing more happened, <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> decided on going into
the garden at once; but, alas for poor <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alex</span>! when <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> got to the door, <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span>
found <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> had forgotten the little golden key, and when <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> went back to the
table for it, <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> found <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> could not possibly reach it: <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> could see it quite
plainly through the glass, and <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> tried <span title='original: her' style='color: purple;'>their</span> best to climb up one of the legs
of the table, but it was too slippery; and when <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> had tired <span title='original: herself' style='color: purple;'>themselves</span> out with
trying, the poor little thing sat down and cried.
</p>
<p>
“Come, there’s no use in crying like that!” said <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alex</span> to
<span title='original: herself' style='color: purple;'>themselves</span>, rather sharply; “I advise you to leave off this minute!”
<span title='original: She' style='color: purple;'>They</span> generally gave <span title='original: herself' style='color: purple;'>themselves</span> very good advice, (though <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> very seldom followed
it), and sometimes <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> scolded <span title='original: herself' style='color: purple;'>themselves</span> so severely as to bring tears into <span title='original: her' style='color: purple;'>their</span>
eyes; and once <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> remembered trying to box <span title='original: her' style='color: purple;'>their</span> own ears for having cheated
<span title='original: herself' style='color: purple;'>themselves</span> in a game of croquet <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> <span title='original: was' style='color: purple;'>were</span> playing against <span title='original: herself' style='color: purple;'>themselves</span>, for this curious
child was very fond of pretending to be two people. “But it’s no
use now,” thought poor <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alex</span>, “to pretend to be two people! Why,
there’s hardly enough of me left to make <i>one</i> respectable
person!”
</p>
<p>
Soon <span title='original: her' style='color: purple;'>their</span> eye fell on a little glass box that was lying under the table: <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span>
opened it, and found in it a very small cake, on which the words “EAT
ME” were beautifully marked in currants. “Well, I’ll eat
it,” said <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alex</span>, “and if it makes me grow larger, I can reach the
key; and if it makes me grow smaller, I can creep under the door; so either way
I’ll get into the garden, and I don’t care which happens!”
</p>
<p>
<span title='original: She' style='color: purple;'>They</span> ate a little bit, and said anxiously to <span title='original: herself' style='color: purple;'>themselves</span>, “Which way? Which
way?”, holding <span title='original: her' style='color: purple;'>their</span> hand on the top of <span title='original: her' style='color: purple;'>their</span> head to feel which way it was
growing, and <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> <span title='original: was' style='color: purple;'>were</span> quite surprised to find that <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> remained the same size:
to be sure, this generally happens when one eats cake, but <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alex</span> had got so
much into the way of expecting nothing but out-of-the-way things to happen,
that it seemed quite dull and stupid for life to go on in the common way.
</p>
<p>
So <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> set to work, and very soon finished off the cake.
</p>
<p class="asterism">
*      *      *      *      *      *      *<br/>
<br/>
    *      *      *      *      *      *<br/>
<br/>
*      *      *      *      *      *      *<br/>
</p>
</div><p><!--end chapter-->
</p></body></html>
