<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8"/><title>The Project Gutenberg eBook of <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alex</span>’s Adventures in Wonderland, by Lewis Carroll</title>
<link href="6269378934971248692_cover.jpg" rel="icon" type="image/x-cover" id="id-8875896598953579899"/>

<link href="0.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="1.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="pgepub.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta name="generator" content="Ebookmaker 0.12.21 by Project Gutenberg"/>
</head>
<body class="x-ebookmaker x-ebookmaker-3"><div class="chapter" id="pgepubid00005">
<h2><a id="chap02"/>CHAPTER II.<br/>
The Pool of Tears</h2>
<p>
“Curiouser and curiouser!” cried <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alex</span> (<span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> <span title='original: was' style='color: purple;'>were</span> so much surprised,
that for the moment <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> quite forgot how to speak good English); “now
I’m opening out like the largest telescope that ever was! Good-bye,
feet!” (for when <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> looked down at <span title='original: her' style='color: purple;'>their</span> feet, they seemed to be almost
out of sight, they were getting so far off). “Oh, my poor little feet, I
wonder who will put on your shoes and stockings for you now, dears? I’m
sure <i>I</i> shan’t be able! I shall be a great deal too far off to
trouble myself about you: you must manage the best way you can;—but I
must be kind to them,” thought <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alex</span>, “or perhaps they won’t
walk the way I want to go! Let me see: I’ll give them a new pair of boots
every Christmas.”
</p>
<p>
And <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> went on planning to <span title='original: herself' style='color: purple;'>themselves</span> how <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> would manage it. “They must
go by the carrier,” <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> thought; “and how funny it’ll seem,
sending presents to one’s own feet! And how odd the directions will look!
</p>
<pre>
     <i><span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alex</span>’s Right Foot, Esq.,
       Hearthrug,
         near the Fender,</i>
           (<i>with <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alex</span>’s love</i>).
</pre>
<p class="noindent">
Oh dear, what nonsense I’m talking!”
</p>
<p>
Just then <span title='original: her' style='color: purple;'>their</span> head struck against the roof of the hall: in fact <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> <span title='original: was' style='color: purple;'>were</span> now
more than nine feet high, and <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> at once took up the little golden key and
hurried off to the garden door.
</p>
<p>
Poor <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alex</span>! It was as much as <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> could do, lying down on one side, to look
through into the garden with one eye; but to get through was more hopeless than
ever: <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> sat down and began to cry again.
</p>
<p>
“You ought to be ashamed of yourself,” said <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alex</span>, “a great
<span title='original: girl' style='color: purple;'>person</span> like you,” (<span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> might well say this), “to go on crying in this
way! Stop this moment, I tell you!” But <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> went on all the same,
shedding gallons of tears, until there was a large pool all round <span title='original: her' style='color: purple;'>them</span>, about
four inches deep and reaching half down the hall.
</p>
<p>
After a time <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> heard a little pattering of feet in the distance, and <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span>
hastily dried <span title='original: her' style='color: purple;'>their</span> eyes to see what was coming. It was the White Rabbit
returning, splendidly dressed, with a pair of white kid gloves in one hand and
a large fan in the other: he came trotting along in a great hurry, muttering to
himself as he came, “Oh! the Duchess, the Duchess! Oh! won’t <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> be
savage if I’ve kept <span title='original: her' style='color: purple;'>them</span> waiting!” <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alex</span> felt so desperate that <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span>
<span title='original: was' style='color: purple;'>were</span> ready to ask help of any one; so, when the Rabbit came near <span title='original: her' style='color: purple;'>them</span>, <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> began,
in a low, timid voice, “If you please, sir—” The Rabbit
started violently, dropped the white kid gloves and the fan, and skurried away
into the darkness as hard as he could go.
</p>
<p>
<span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alex</span> took up the fan and gloves, and, as the hall was very hot, <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> kept
fanning <span title='original: herself' style='color: purple;'>themselves</span> all the time <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> went on talking: “Dear, dear! How queer
everything is to-day! And yesterday things went on just as usual. I wonder if
I’ve been changed in the night? Let me think: was I the same when I got
up this morning? I almost think I can remember feeling a little different. But
if I’m not the same, the next question is, Who in the world am I? Ah,
<i>that’s</i> the great puzzle!” And <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> began thinking over all
the children <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> knew that were of the same age as herself, to see if <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> could
have been changed for any of them.
</p>
<p>
“I’m sure I’m not Ada,” <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> said, “for her hair
goes in such long ringlets, and mine doesn’t go in ringlets at all; and
I’m sure I can’t be Mabel, for I know all sorts of things, and she,
oh! she knows such a very little! Besides, <i>she’s</i> she, and
<i>I’m</i> I, and—oh dear, how puzzling it all is! I’ll try
if I know all the things I used to know. Let me see: four times five is twelve,
and four times six is thirteen, and four times seven is—oh dear! I shall
never get to twenty at that rate! However, the Multiplication Table
doesn’t signify: let’s try Geography. London is the capital of
Paris, and Paris is the capital of Rome, and Rome—no, <i>that’s</i>
all wrong, I’m certain! I must have been changed for Mabel! I’ll
try and say ‘<i>How doth the little</i>—’” and <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span>
crossed <span title='original: her' style='color: purple;'>their</span> hands on <span title='original: her' style='color: purple;'>their</span> lap as if <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> were saying lessons, and began to repeat
it, but <span title='original: her' style='color: purple;'>their</span> voice sounded hoarse and strange, and the words did not come the
same as they used to do:—
</p>
<p class="poem">
“How doth the little crocodile<br/>
    Improve his shining tail,<br/>
And pour the waters of the Nile<br/>
    On every golden scale!<br/>
<br/>
“How cheerfully he seems to grin,<br/>
    How neatly spread his claws,<br/>
And welcome little fishes in<br/>
    With gently smiling jaws!”
</p>
<p>
“I’m sure those are not the right words,” said poor <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alex</span>,
and <span title='original: her' style='color: purple;'>their</span> eyes filled with tears again as <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> went on, “I must be Mabel
after all, and I shall have to go and live in that poky little house, and have
next to no toys to play with, and oh! ever so many lessons to learn! No,
I’ve made up my mind about it; if I’m Mabel, I’ll stay down
here! It’ll be no use their putting their heads down and saying
‘Come up again, dear!’ I shall only look up and say ‘Who am I
then? Tell me that first, and then, if I like being that person, I’ll
come up: if not, I’ll stay down here till I’m somebody
else’—but, oh dear!” cried <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alex</span>, with a sudden burst of
tears, “I do wish they <i>would</i> put their heads down! I am so
<i>very</i> tired of being all alone here!”
</p>
<p>
As <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> said this <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> looked down at <span title='original: her' style='color: purple;'>their</span> hands, and was surprised to see that
<span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> had put on one of the Rabbit’s little white kid gloves while <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> <span title='original: was' style='color: purple;'>were</span>
talking. “How <i>can</i> I have done that?” <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> thought. “I
must be growing small again.” <span title='original: She' style='color: purple;'>They</span> got up and went to the table to measure
<span title='original: herself' style='color: purple;'>themselves</span> by it, and found that, as nearly as <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> could guess, <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> <span title='original: was' style='color: purple;'>were</span> now about
two feet high, and was going on shrinking rapidly: <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> soon found out that the
cause of this was the fan <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> <span title='original: was' style='color: purple;'>were</span> holding, and <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> dropped it hastily, just in
time to avoid shrinking away altogether.
</p>
<p>
“That <i>was</i> a narrow escape!” said <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alex</span>, a good deal
frightened at the sudden change, but very glad to find <span title='original: herself' style='color: purple;'>themselves</span> still in
existence; “and now for the garden!” and <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> ran with all speed
back to the little door: but, alas! the little door was shut again, and the
little golden key was lying on the glass table as before, “and things are
worse than ever,” thought the poor child, “for I never was so small
as this before, never! And I declare it’s too bad, that it is!”
</p>
<p>
As <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> said these words <span title='original: her' style='color: purple;'>their</span> foot slipped, and in another moment, splash! <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span>
<span title='original: was' style='color: purple;'>were</span> up to <span title='original: her' style='color: purple;'>their</span> chin in salt water. <span title='original: Her' style='color: purple;'>Their</span> first idea was that <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> had somehow
fallen into the sea, “and in that case I can go back by railway,”
<span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> said to <span title='original: herself' style='color: purple;'>themselves</span>. (<span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alex</span> had been to the seaside once in <span title='original: her' style='color: purple;'>their</span> life, and had
come to the general conclusion, that wherever you go to on the English coast
you find a number of bathing machines in the sea, some children digging in the
sand with wooden spades, then a row of lodging houses, and behind them a
railway station.) However, <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> soon made out that <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> <span title='original: was' style='color: purple;'>were</span> in the pool of tears
which <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> had wept when <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> <span title='original: was' style='color: purple;'>were</span> nine feet high.
</p>
<p>
“I wish I hadn’t cried so much!” said <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alex</span>, as <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> swam
about, trying to find <span title='original: her' style='color: purple;'>their</span> way out. “I shall be punished for it now, I
suppose, by being drowned in my own tears! That <i>will</i> be a queer thing,
to be sure! However, everything is queer to-day.”
</p>
<p>
Just then <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> heard something splashing about in the pool a little way off, and
<span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> swam nearer to make out what it was: at first <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> thought it must be a
walrus or hippopotamus, but then <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> remembered how small <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> <span title='original: was' style='color: purple;'>were</span> now, and <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span>
soon made out that it was only a mouse that had slipped in like <span title='original: herself' style='color: purple;'>themselves</span>.
</p>
<p>
“Would it be of any use, now,” thought <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alex</span>, “to speak to
this mouse? Everything is so out-of-the-way down here, that I should think very
likely it can talk: at any rate, there’s no harm in trying.” So <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span>
began: “O Mouse, do you know the way out of this pool? I am very tired of
swimming about here, O Mouse!” (<span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alex</span> thought this must be the right way
of speaking to a mouse: <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> had never done such a thing before, but <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span>
remembered having seen in <span title='original: her' style='color: purple;'>their</span> brother’s Latin Grammar, “A
mouse—of a mouse—to a mouse—a mouse—O mouse!”)
The Mouse looked at <span title='original: her' style='color: purple;'>them</span> rather inquisitively, and seemed to <span title='original: her' style='color: purple;'>them</span> to wink with
one of its little eyes, but it said nothing.
</p>
<p>
“Perhaps it doesn’t understand English,” thought <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alex</span>;
“I daresay it’s a French mouse, come over with William the
Conqueror.” (For, with all <span title='original: her' style='color: purple;'>their</span> knowledge of history, <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alex</span> had no very
clear notion how long ago anything had happened.) So <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> began again: “Où
est ma chatte?” which was the first sentence in <span title='original: her' style='color: purple;'>their</span> French lesson-book.
The Mouse gave a sudden leap out of the water, and seemed to quiver all over
with fright. “Oh, I beg your pardon!” cried <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alex</span> hastily, afraid
that <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> had hurt the poor animal’s feelings. “I quite forgot you
didn’t like cats.”
</p>
<p>
“Not like cats!” cried the Mouse, in a shrill, passionate voice.
“Would <i>you</i> like cats if you were me?”
</p>
<p>
“Well, perhaps not,” said <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alex</span> in a soothing tone:
“don’t be angry about it. And yet I wish I could show you our cat
Dinah: I think you’d take a fancy to cats if you could only see her. She
is such a dear quiet thing,” <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alex</span> went on, half to <span title='original: herself' style='color: purple;'>theirselves</span>, as <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> swam
lazily about in the pool, “and she sits purring so nicely by the fire,
licking her paws and washing her face—and she is such a nice soft thing
to nurse—and she’s such a capital one for catching mice—oh, I
beg your pardon!” cried <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alex</span> again, for this time the Mouse was
bristling all over, and <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> felt certain it must be really offended. “We
won’t talk about her any more if you’d rather not.”
</p>
<p>
“We indeed!” cried the Mouse, who was trembling down to the end of
his tail. “As if <i>I</i> would talk on such a subject! Our family always
<i>hated</i> cats: nasty, low, vulgar things! Don’t let me hear the name
again!”
</p>
<p>
“I won’t indeed!” said <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alex</span>, in a great hurry to change the
subject of conversation. “Are you—are you fond—of—of
dogs?” The Mouse did not answer, so <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alex</span> went on eagerly: “There
is such a nice little dog near our house I should like to show you! A little
bright-eyed terrier, you know, with oh, such long curly brown hair! And
it’ll fetch things when you throw them, and it’ll sit up and beg
for its dinner, and all sorts of things—I can’t remember half of
them—and it belongs to a farmer, you know, and he says it’s so
useful, it’s worth a hundred pounds! He says it kills all the rats
and—oh dear!” cried <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alex</span> in a sorrowful tone, “I’m
afraid I’ve offended it again!” For the Mouse was swimming away
from <span title='original: her' style='color: purple;'>them</span> as hard as it could go, and making quite a commotion in the pool as it
went.
</p>
<p>
So <span title='original: she' style='color: purple;'>they</span> called softly after it, “Mouse dear! Do come back again, and we
won’t talk about cats or dogs either, if you don’t like
them!” When the Mouse heard this, it turned round and swam slowly back to
<span title='original: her' style='color: purple;'>them</span>: its face was quite pale (with passion, <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alex</span> thought), and it said in a
low trembling voice, “Let us get to the shore, and then I’ll tell
you my history, and you’ll understand why it is I hate cats and
dogs.”
</p>
<p>
It was high time to go, for the pool was getting quite crowded with the birds
and animals that had fallen into it: there were a Duck and a Dodo, a Lory and
an Eaglet, and several other curious creatures. <span title='original: Alice' style='color: purple;'>Alex</span> led the way, and the
whole party swam to the shore.
</p>
</div><p><!--end chapter-->
</p></body></html>
